---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-commerce"
version: "2024"
semester: "1"
course_code: "mg1dsccom100"
course_title: "basic-finance-for-daily-life"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG1DSCCOM100 - Basic Finance for Daily Life

This course aims to convey the focus and purpose of financial literacy, its foundational concepts, budgeting, and investing. The course is designed to equip students with knowledge and skills needed to engage in effective financial planning, helping them navigate various financial aspects across different life stages.

---
## Course Objectives

* Understand the concepts regarding financial literacy, financial education, and financial socialization.
* Apply the concepts of financial literacy for decision making regarding the selection of financial products or services.
* Analyse the prospects of financial products/services and identify the best options.
* Evaluate the financial behaviour of individuals and suggest the best.
* Design financial literacy campaigns.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Financial Literacy - Concepts
* Finance - Meaning and Importance.
* Financial Literacy Role in decision making.
* Components of Financial Literacy: Financial knowledge, financial attitude, Skills, Financial Behaviour.
* Financial socialisation and socializing agencies.

### Module 2: Financial Knowledge
* Interest rate -Simple interest - Compound interest- Effective Interest rate.
* EMI - Inflation and its effect on purchasing power.
* Knowledge about money market and capital market products.
* Factors to be considered while choosing an investment, borrowing, and selecting insurance.

### Module 3: Financial Attitude, Skills and Behaviour
* Money attitude and its outcomes in personal finance.
* Numeracy as a skill for finance.
* Types of financial behaviour: Expenditure control and saving, Investment behaviour, Credit behaviour.
* Financial Discipline, Ethics, and Well-being.

### Module 4: Financial Awareness Activities and Campaigns (Practicum)
* Conducting a financial literacy survey and preparation of reports.
* Financial Awareness campaigns.
* Prepare Comparative tables/ charts of investment avenues and government schemes.
* Awareness regarding Money Market Investments, Opening of Bank Accounts,

## References
* Jain, S.P., & Narang, K.L., *Advanced Accountancy*, Kalyani Publishers, New Delhi.
* Maheshwari, S.N., & Maheswari, S.K., *Advanced Accountancy*, Vikas Publishing House, New Delhi.
* Shukla, M.C., & Grewal, T.S., *Advanced Accountancy*, S Chand and Company (Pvt.) Ltd, New Delhi.
* Ashok, Sehgal, & Deepak Sehgal, *Financial Accounting*, Taxmann Allied Service (Pvt.) Ltd, New Delhi.
* Arulanandam, MA and Raman, KS, *Advanced Accountancy*, Himalaya Publications, Mumbai.
* Paul, S. K., & Chandrani, Paul, *Advanced Accountancy*, New Central Book Agency, New Delhi.
* Raman B S, *Financial Accounting*- United Publishers.