---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "2"
course_code: "mg2ccrbba100"
course_title: "organisation-behaviour"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG2CCRBBA100 - Organisation Behaviour

 This course will cover principles and concepts to understand how individuals interact with each other and their environment in organisational contexts.Students will explore topics such as motivation, perception, personality, leadership, group decision-making, culture, and conflict resolution through a blend of theoretical frameworks and real-world applications. 

---
## Course Objectives

* To develop a basic understanding of the concept of organisational behaviour. 
* Demonstrate theoretical knowledge of human behaviour and its implications in the organisation. 
* To understand and examine individual and group behaviour in the workplace to improve the effectiveness of an organisation. 
* To understand organisation culture and analyse leadership styles. 

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Organisational Behaviour  
* Meaning, importance, and historical development of organisational behaviour. 
* Factors influencing organisational behaviour;Contributing disciplines of OB. 

### Module 2: Individual Behaviour 
* Personality: Meaning, Determinants, Types of personality (Type A and B, Big Five). 
* Stages of personality development, Attitude meaning, components.
* Learning: concept, theories (classical conditioning, operant conditioning, cognitive, social).
* Perception: concept, perceptual process, factors influencing perception.
* Motivation: Concept, importance; Early and Contemporary Theories of motivation. 

### Module 3: Group & Team Behaviour  
* Group: Concept, Five Stage model of group development; Groupthink and shift. 
* Teams; Types of teams; Creating team players from individual building; Individual & Group conflict; e-teams. 

### Module 4: Leadership & Organizational Culture 
* Leadership: Concept; Leadership theories (Trait, Behavioural, Contingency, Inspirational Approaches). 
* Authentic leadership; Mentoring, self-leadership, Comparison of Indian leadership styles with other countries.
* Organisational Culture: Concept of culture; Impact, Employees and culture; Need and importance of Cross-Cultural management. 
---
## References
* Robbins, Stephen. *Organisational Behaviour*. Prentice Hall of India Ltd., New Delhi.
* Luthans, Fred. *Organisational Behaviour: An Evidence-Based Approach*.McGraw Hil Publishers Co. Ltd., New Delhi. 
* Prasad, L.M. *Organisational Theory Behaviour*. Sultan Chand &Sons, New Delhi. 
* Rao, V.S.P. *Organisation Behavior*. Himalaya Publishing House. 
* Aswathappa, K. *Organisational Behaviour*.Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai, 18th Edition. 