---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "2"
course_code: "mg2ccrbba102"
course_title: "business-economics"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG2CCRBBA102 - Business Economics

 Business economics uses economic concepts and principles, emphasising demand and supply analysis, production and cost analysis, and different market structures, which are fundamental for further study.  This course also introduces important macroeconomic concepts, which are indispensable for understanding the functioning of an economy and might affect business performance.  

---
## Course Objectives

*  Understand the fundamental concepts and principles of microeconomics and its application in business.  
*  Apply fundamental production and cost concepts to optimise resource utilisation.  
*  Understand and analyse different market structures and their influence on price and output determination.  
*  Understand a few key concepts in macroeconomics, the Indian economy and the calculation of National Income.  

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Fundamentals and Basic Elements of Microeconomics  
*  Economics: Meaning, Scarcity and Choice, Positive and Normative, Micro and Macro economics.  
*  Demand: Utility, types of demand, Law of diminishing marginal utility, Law of demand, Demand Schedule and Curve, Determinants of Demand.  
*  Elasticity of demand: Kinds (Price, Income, Advertisement, Cross) and measurement  .  
*  Supply: meaning, Supply Schedule, determinants, law of supply.  
### Module 2: Production Function  
*  Factors of Production, Production Function, Laws of production (Law of Variable Proportions, Law of Returns to Scale). 
*  Isoquant curve, Isocost curve, Law of Equi-Marginal Utility, Indifference Curves.  
* Cost: cost concepts;  Theory of Cost- Short Run and Long Run cost function. 

### Module 3: Analysis of Market  
* Concept of Market;  Market forms: Perfect competition, Monopoly, Monopolistic Competition, Oligopoly. 
* Duopoly, monopsony, duopsony, oligopsony .

### Module 4: Introduction to Macroeconomics 
* A Brief Introduction of Indian Economy Pre-and Post-Independence; Current Challenges.
* Circular Flow of Income. Concept of GDP, GNP, NDP, NNP. 
* Methods of Calculating National Income. 

---
## References
* Varian. H.R: *Micro Economics A modern Approach*. 
* Mc Connell & Brue: *Micro Economics Principal, problems & policies*. McGraw Hills Professional Publication. 
* Ahuja, H.L. *Advanced Economic theory*.
* Shapiro, J.: *Macro Economic Theory and Policy*. 
* Bransin, W.H.: *Macro-Economic Analysis*.
* Samuelson & Nordhaus, William D.: *Economics*; McGraw Hills. 
* Agarwal, A.N.: *Indian Economy*. 
* Mankiw, N. Gregory. *Macroeconomics*. 
* Blanchard, Olivier. *Macroeconomics*. 