---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "2"
course_code: "mg2vacbba100"
course_title: "indian-constitution"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG2VACBBA100 - Indian Constitution

This course provides a distinctive perspective on the Indian Constitution by emphasizing its economic dimensions and influence on business. It explores the historical and ideological foundations of the Constitution as an economic framework, charting its evolution from post-colonial economic governance to contemporary debates. Students will investigate constitutional conflicts over land reforms, economic liberalization, and fiscal federalism, offering insights into competing economic ideologies and interests.

---
## Course Objectives

* Understand the Indian Constitution's key features, preamble, and principles as the foundation for governance and socio-economic justice in India.
* Develop the ability to critically assess the impact of fiscal policies and fundamental rights on the business landscape in India.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to the Indian Constitution and Foundations of Economic Reform 
* Introduction to the Indian constitution, Salient Features, Preamble & Key Concepts.
* Economic Justice in the Constitution- Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSPs).
* Economic Liberalization and Nationalization-Bank Nationalization Cases.
* Financial and Tax Reforms in the Post-Emergency Era.
* Fundamental Duties.

### Module 2: Fiscal Federalism, Fundamental Rights and Business in India  
* Introduction to Fundamental Rights and their Economic Dimensions.
* Concept of Federalism, Division of Financial Powers, Fiscal Federalism and GST.
* Fundamental rights vs. economic regulations (e.g., liquor bans, mining rights).
* Key regulations affecting businesses (e.g., SEBI, RBI).
* Emerging Challenges in FinTech and Artificial Intelligence.
* Articles 301-307: Freedom of Trade, Commerce, and Intercourse.
* Role of the Finance Commission (Article 280).

### Module 3: Ethics, Emerging Trends, and IT Applications
* *Digital Ethics:* Cyber ethics, misinformation, and combating challenges like cyberbullying and the digital divide.
* *Emerging Technologies:* Legal and ethical implications of AI, blockchain, and IoT from a constitutional perspective.
* *IT for Governance:* Role of IT in improving public service delivery and case studies on digital governance initiatives in India.
* *Future Directions:* Technological advancements and their constitutional implications.

---
## References
* *The Oxford Handbook of the Indian Constitution*, Oxford University Press.
* Basu, Durga Das (DD Basu). *"Introduction to the Constitution of India"*, (Students Edition.). Prentice-Hall, 2008.
* Reddy, Y.V. and Reddy, G.R. *"Indian Fiscal Federalism"*.
