---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "2"
course_code: "mg2mdebba100"
course_title: "media-literacy-and-critical-thinking"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG2MDEBBA100 - Media Literacy and Critical Thinking

This course equips students with essential media literacy and critical thinking skills to analyze and navigate various media forms. It covers the dynamics of media production and ownership in India, ethical and regulatory considerations, and enhances digital literacy for responsible online engagement. Through comprehensive study and practical exercises, students will learn to critically engage with media content, uncover biases, and make informed decisions in media consumption and production.

---
## Course Objectives

* Demonstrate proficiency in analysing media texts and identifying implicit messages and ideologies.
* Apply media literacy principles to make informed decisions about media consumption and production.
* Understand the complexities of media production, distribution, and audience behaviour.
* Understand the ethical standards in media content creation and consumption.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Foundations of Media Literacy and Critical Thinking  
* Core principles of media literacy and critical thinking; Definition and significance of media literacy.
* Historical evolution within the Indian context; Understanding media as a powerful communication tool.

### Module 2: Deconstructing Media Texts 
* Forms of media texts, including print, broadcast, digital, and social media.
* Textual analysis and the deconstruction of visual media using semiotics.
* The impact of media representations on individual perceptions and societal attitudes.

### Module 3: Media Consumption and Production Dynamics  
* Dynamics of media production, distribution, and consumption in India: Influence of ownership and control.
* Analysing audience consumption patterns and techniques for critically evaluating media content.

### Module 4: Ethics and Regulations  
* Ethical and regulatory considerations inherent in media practices.
* Ethical principles in media, the regulatory framework governing media content, and the role of self-regulatory bodies.

---
## References
* Potter, W. J. *Media literacy* (8th ed.). SAGE Publications.
* Hobbs, R. *Media literacy in the digital age*. Routledge.
* Halpern, D. F. *Thought & knowledge: An introduction to critical thinking* (5th ed.). Psychology Press.
* Kahneman, D. *Thinking, fast and slow*. Farrar, Straus and Giroux.
* Baran, S. J., & Davis, D. K. *Mass communication theory: Foundations, ferment, and future* (8th ed.). Cengage Learning.
* Bhaskar, N. K. *Media laws and ethics in India*. Lexis Nexis.