---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-commerce"
version: "2024"
semester: "3"
course_code: "co3crt07"
course_title: "corporate-accounts-i"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# CO3CRT07 - Corporate Accounts I

The objective of this course is to make the students familiarise with corporate accounting procedures and to understand the accounting for banking companies.

---
## Course Objectives

* Understand and apply accounting procedures for share transactions, including ESOP, rights issues, and buybacks.
* Manage accounting for the underwriting of shares and debentures.
* Prepare the final accounts of joint stock companies as per the Companies Act 2013.
* Maintain and prepare investment accounts.
* Calculate and account for insurance claims for loss of stock and loss of profit.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Accounting for Shares  
* Redemption of Preference Shares.
* ESOP (Employee Stock Option Plan).
* Rights Issue.
* Bonus Issue.
* Buyback of Shares.

### Module 2: Underwriting of Shares and Debentures 
* Marked and Unmarked Applications.
* Firm Underwriting.
* Determining the Liability of Underwriters.
* Complete and Partial Underwriting.

### Module 3: Final Accounts of Joint Stock Companies  
* Preparation of Company Final Accounts in Vertical form (As per provisions of Companies Act 2013), including Balance Sheet.
* Calculation of Managerial Remuneration.
* Accounting for Profit (Loss) Prior to Incorporation.

### Module 4: Investment Account  
* Accounting for Cum-interest, Ex-interest, Cum-dividend, Ex-dividend transactions.
* Preparation of Investment Accounts.
* Treatment of Bonus Share and Right Shares in Investment Accounts.

### Module 5: Insurance claims  
* Loss of stock: computation of claim for loss of stock, Application of average clause, elimination of abnormal/defective items.
* Loss of profit policy: Calculation of claim.

---
## References
* Jain, S.P., & Narang, K.L., *Advanced Accountancy*, Kalyani Publishers, New Delhi.
* Maheswari, S.N & Maheswari, S.K., *Advanced Accounting*, Vikas Publishing House, New Delhi.
* Shukla, M.C., & Grewal, T. S., *Advanced Accountancy*, S. Chand and Company Pvt. Ltd, New Delhi.
* Shukla, S.M., & Gupta, S.P., *Advanced Accounting*, Sahitya Bhavan Publications, Agra.
* Raman BS, *Corporate Accounting*, United Publishers.
* Arulanandam, MA and Raman, KS, *Advanced Accountancy*, Himalaya Publications, Mumbai.
