---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "3"
course_code: "mg3ccrbba201"
course_title: "cost-and-management-accounting"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG3CCRBBA201 - Cost and Management Accounting

This course introduces students to the fundamental principles, techniques, and tools of Cost and Management Accounting that is essential for effective managerial decision-making. It focuses on cost concepts, cost classifications, and cost sheet preparation to build a base in cost accounting. Learners are equipped to analyse financial statements using comparative, common-size, and trend analysis techniques. The course further deepens financial analytical skills by studying various ratios. Students also explore essential management accounting tools such as marginal costing, budgetary control, and cash and fund flow statements, with an emphasis on their application in business scenarios.

---
## Course Objectives

* To develop a foundational understanding of cost and management accounting, including the nature, functions, tools, and distinctions among financial, cost, and management accounting.
* To equip students with the ability to analyse financial statements using tools such as comparative and common-size statements.
* To apply ratio analysis techniques for evaluating a company's liquidity, solvency, turnover, and profitability with practical problem-solving.
* To enable students to interpret financial ratios effectively, identify trends in business performance, and apply them to propose financial strategies that enhance organisational performance.
* To understand key tools of management accounting like marginal costing, break-even analysis, budgeting, and cash and fund flow analysis for decision-making and financial planning.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Cost and Management Accounting  
* Costing, Cost Accounting, Cost Concepts, Cost classification, Elements of cost, Cost sheet preparation.
* Management Accounting: Meaning, Definition, Nature, Features, Scope, Objectives, Functions, Tools and techniques.
* Relationship and differences between Cost accounting, Management accounting and Financial Accounting.

### Module 2: Financial Statement Analysis: Comparative and Common Size Analysis  
* Meaning of Financial Statement Analysis, Objectives, Benefits and limitations, Types, Tools.
* Comparative Income Statements and Balance Sheets (including Problems).
* Common Size Income Statements and Balance Sheet analysis (including Problems), Trend Analysis.

### Module 3: Financial Statement Analysis: Ratio Analysis 
* Ratio Analysis- meaning, Importance, Objectives, Benefits and limitations.
* Classifications of Ratios: Liquidity Ratios, Solvency Ratios, Activity/Turnover Ratios, Profitability Ratios (Theory and Problems).

### Module 4: Other tools of management accounting  
* Marginal Costing: Meaning and application, Cost Volume Profit Analysis, Break Even Analysis (simple problems).
* Budgetary Control: meaning, importance, limitations, Objectives, Functions, Types of budgets (theory only).
* Cash Flow Statement and Fund Flow Statement: meaning and importance, distinction.

---
## References
* Arora, M. N. *Cost and Management Accounting*, New Delhi: Himalaya Publishing House.
* Saxena, V. K., & Vashist, C. D. *Cost Accounting* (8th ed.). Sultan Chand & Sons.
* Khan, M. Y., & Jain, P. K. *Management Accounting* (8th ed.). McGraw Hill Education.
* Jain, S.P., & Narang, K.L. *Cost Accounting. Principles and Practice*, New Delhi: Kalyani Publishers.
* Kishor, R.M. *Cost and Management Accounting*. New Delhi: Taxman Allied Services.
* Pillai, R.S.N, Bagavathi, V., *Cost Accounting*. New Delhi: Sultan Chand.
* Arora, M.N. *Management Accounting*, New Delhi: Himalaya Publishing House.
* Lal, J. Srivastav, Seema., Singh, Manisha. *Cost Accounting: Test, Problems and Cases*, New Delhi: Tata McGraw Hill Education.
* Maheshwari, S. N., Maheshwari, S. K., & Maheshwari, S. K. *A Textbook of Accounting for Management* (5th ed.). Vikas Publishing House.