---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "3"
course_code: "mg3ccrbba202"
course_title: "business-research-methodology"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG3CCRBBA202 - Business Research Methodology

Business Research Methodology provides an in-depth understanding of the fundamental concepts and applications of research methods in business. This course covers various research designs, data collection methods, statistical techniques, and the process of writing research reports. Through this curriculum, students will develop the skills required to design sound research, effectively collect and analyse data, and communicate research findings comprehensively.

---
## Course Objectives

* To grasp the fundamentals of research methodology and apply them in various research or project works.
* To identify and utilize appropriate research methods aligned with research objectives.
* To master the techniques of data collection, editing, and analysis to prepare for advanced studies and professional requirements.
* To learn the intricacies of interpreting data and writing comprehensive research reports.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction 
* Introduction to Research, history, evolution.
* Types of scientific inquiry and research (Fundamental, Applied, Descriptive, Evaluation, Experimental, etc.).
* Ethical considerations in research, process of research, characteristics and components of good research work.

### Module 2: Formulating the Research Problem  
* Formulate research problems, problem statement formulation, formulation of hypothesis.
* Conduct literature reviews purpose, sources, and importance.
* Develop research questions and objectives, process of creating effective research designs.

### Module 3: Measurement and Data Collection  
* Variables in Research, Measurement and scaling- Different scales, Construction of instrument, Validity and Reliability.
* Data Collection methods - primary and secondary data.
* Construction of questionnaire and instrument validation, interviews, and observations.
* Sample size determination - Sample design and sampling techniques.

### Module 4: Data Analysis and Interpretation  
* Processing of Data: Editing, Coding, Classification.
* Qualitative vs Quantitative data analyses, Univariate, Bivariate and Multivariate statistical techniques.
* Research report, Different types, Contents of report, chapterization, Report writing layout.
* Referencing styles and bibliography.

### Module 5: Practical Component  
* A mini research project is required where students design and execute a small study on a business-related topic and prepare a 15-20 page report.

---
## References
* Malhotra, N. K., Nunan, D., & Birks, D. F., *Marketing research*. Pearson UK.
* Kumar, Ranjit. *Research Methodology*.
* Sekaran, Uma. *Research Methods for Business*.
* Kothari, C.R. *Methodology of Research*.
* Bryman, Alan & Bell, Emma. *Business Research Methods*. Oxford University Press.
* Cooper, Donald & Schindler, Pamela. *Business Research Methods*. TMGH.
* Bhandarkar, P.L. & Wilkinson, T.S. *Methodology and Techniques of Social Research*. Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.