---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "3"
course_code: "mg3mdebba200"
course_title: "legal-and-ethical-issues-in-business"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG3MDEBBA200 - Legal and Ethical Issues in Business

This course provides a comprehensive exploration of the legal concepts, regulations, and ethical dilemmas that businesses face across various sectors. Through lectures, case studies, and interactive discussions, students will develop the ability to critically analyse legal scenarios and ethical issues and make informed decisions that align with both legal requirements and ethical business practices.

---
## Course Objectives

* To provide students with the understanding of key legal and ethical issues in the business context of India.
* To help students analyse ethical dilemmas in business decisions.
* To help the students understand the legal and regulatory aspects of business ethics that concern the financial, competitive and charitable responsibilities of organisations.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Business Law  
* Business law definition, scope, importance.
* Elements of a contract: offer and acceptance, consideration, contractual capacity; Essentials of a valid contract.
* Types of contracts; Performance obligations; Types of contract breaches and remedies.

### Module 2: Sales, Leases and Negotiable Instruments 
* Formation of Sales Contract: Contracts for Leasing Goods, Title and Risk of loss, Performance and remedies.
* Introduction to Negotiable Instruments, Negotiability, Negotiation and Holders in due course; Liability and discharge.

### Module 3: Introduction to Business Ethics 
* The definition and importance of business ethics, business ethics in the Indian context; Benefits of Ethical Conduct in Business.
* Issues related to Business Ethics in marketing, finance & human resource functions.

---
## References
* Tulsian, P. C. *Business and Corporate Laws*. S. Chand Publishing.
* Fernando, A.C. *Business Ethics and Corporate Governance*. Pearson.
* Bayern, S. *Business Law Beyond Business*.
* Sundar K. *Business Ethics and values*. Chennai Vijay Nicole Imprints Pvt Ltd 2019.
* Tulsian, P. C. *Business Law*. Tata McGraw-Hill Education.
* Mascarenhas, A. J. O. et al. (2019). *J.R.D. Tata: Orations on Business Ethics*. Rupa Publications India.
* Laasch, O. (2022). *Principles of Management*. Sage Textbook.