---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "3"
course_code: "mg3vacbba200"
course_title: "disaster-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG3VACBBA200 - Disaster Management

This course aims to equip students with the knowledge and skills necessary to address and mitigate the impacts of disasters in a holistic manner, aligning with global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and perspectives of environmental sustainability, climate adaptation, and disaster resilience.

---
## Course Objectives

* Articulate the critical role of disaster management in reducing risks and enhancing resilience.
* Identify and describe key institutional frameworks and processes in disaster management.
* Conduct risk assessments and develop disaster management plans for specific scenarios.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Concepts and Terminologies  
* Understanding key concepts of Hazards, disasters; Disaster types and causes (Geophysical, Hydrological, etc.).
* Global trends in disasters Impacts (Physical, Social, Economic, Political, Environmental and Psychosocial).
* Defining Vulnerability (Physical, Economic, Social).

### Module 2: Key concepts of Disaster Management Cycle  
* Components of disaster management cycle (Phases: Response and recovery, Risk assessment, Mitigation and prevention, Preparedness planning, Prediction and warning).
* Disaster risk reduction (DRR), Community based disaster risk reduction.

### Module 3: Initiatives at national and international level  
* Disaster Risk Management in India and at international level: Related policies, plans, programmes and legislation.
* International strategy for disaster reduction and other initiatives.

### Module 4: Emergency Management  
* Explosion and accidents (Industrial, Nuclear, Transport and Mining).
* Spill (Oil and Hazardous material).
* Threats (Bomb and terrorist attacks).
* Stampede and conflicts.

### Module 5: Practical  
* Includes compulsory training, demonstration workshops, and practical assessments like Disaster Classification Reports and Vulnerability Assessments.

---
## References
* Sharma, S.C., *Disaster Management*, Khanna Book Publishing.
* Clements, B. W.,: *Disasters and Public Health: Planning and Response*, Elsevier Inc.
* Dunkan, K., and Brebbia, C. A., (Eds.): *Disaster Management and Human Health Risk: Reducing Risk, Improving Outcomes*, WIT Press, UK.
* Singh, R. B. (ed.), *Natural Hazards and Disaster Management: Vulnerability and Mitigation*, Rawat Publications, New Delhi.
* Ramkumar, Mu, *Geological Hazards: Causes, Consequences and Methods of Containment*, New India Publishing Agency, New Delhi.
* Modh, S. *Managing Natural Disaster: Hydrological, Marine and Geological Disasters*, Macmillan, Delhi.
* Carter, N. *Disaster Management: A Disaster Management Handbook*. Asian Development Bank, Manila.