---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "1"
course_code: "mg1ccrbba100"
course_title: "principles-and-practices-of-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG1CCRBBA100 - Principles and Practices of Management

 This course introduces the student to the key aspects of management planning, organizing, leading, and controlling by integrating both classical and contemporary management practices. Through case studies, interactive sessions, and practical exercises, students will learn to apply these principles to real-world scenarios that will prepare them for leadership roles in diverse organisational settings. The goal is to equip students with the tools and insights necessary to manage effectively and drive organisational success. 

---
## Course Objectives

*  To understand the basic concepts, principles, and theories of Management.  
*  To examine the essential functions of Managers.  
*  To analyze the impact of globalization, diversity, and ethics on management.  
*  To develop skills in strategic planning, decision-making, and leadership. 
---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Management
*  Definition, nature, and significance of management, principles of management, management and administration, levels of management, role of managers and managerial skills.  
*  Evolution of management thought: Classical (Scientific, Administrative and Bureaucratic), Human Relations, Quantitative, Systems, and Contingency approaches.  
* Management as a science and an art;  Functions of management: Planning, organizing, directing, and controlling. [cite: 1419]

### Module 2: Planning, Organizing and Staffing
* Nature, Importance and Purpose of planning in management; Types of plans: Strategic, tactical, operational;Planning process and techniques.  
*  Decision making- Importance and steps. 
* Organisational structure, types of organisational structures: Functional, divisional, matrix; Authority, responsibility, and delegation, Centralization Vs Decentralization;  Span of Control.  
* Coordination and integration, MBO and MBE;  Nature and Importance of staffing recruitment, selection.  

### Module 3: Directing and Controlling
*  Meaning and nature of directing, Leadership, Motivation, Communication (meaning and importance) in management.  
*  Controlling- meaning and steps in controlling, control process, essentials of sound control system, methods of establishing control.  

### Module 4: Strategic Management, Ethics and Social Responsibility
*  Overview of strategic management, SWOT analysis.  
*  Ethical issues in management.  
*  Corporate social responsibility (CSR).  

---
## References
*  Prasad, L. M, *Principles and Practice of Management*, Sultan Chand & Sons-New Delhi.  
*  Tripathi P C, *Principles of Management*, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing Company Ltd. 
* Rao, V. S. P. *Management Principles and Applications*.  Taxmann Publications.  
*  Kapoor, Premvir, *Principles of Management*, Khanna Book Publishing.  
* Weihrich, H., & Koontz, H. *Management: A global perspective*.  McGRAW Hill.  
* Koontz, H., O'Donnell, C., & Weihrich, H. *Essentials of management*.  New York: McGraw-Hill.  