---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "1"
course_code: "mg1ccrbba102"
course_title: "business-statistics-and-logic"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG1CCRBBA102 - Business Statistics and Logic

 This course has been introduced as part of BBA programs because quantitative aptitude tests are a key component in competitive exams globally. Business Statistics helps us to make business decisions under uncertainties, which must be objective and based on quantitative data.With business entities keen on making data-driven decisions it is essential for individuals working in this uncertain environment to possess such skills.  

---
## Course Objectives

*  To establish importance of logical reasoning in human inquiry.  
*  To demonstrate datahandling skills and summarize data with clarity.  
*  To extend an understanding of application of relevant concepts of Statistics to a given business scenario. 
*  To understand business problems and make decisions using appropriate statistical models and explain trends.  
*  To demonstrate the knowledge on the process of organizing data and conduct statistical treatment.  

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Measures of Central Tendency, Dispersion, Skewness and Kurtosis
*  Classification and tabulation of data, frequency distribution, diagrams and graphs.  
*  Measure of central tendency: arithmetic mean, weighted arithmetic mean, median, mode, geometric mean (theory only) and harmonic mean (theory only). 
*  Measures of dispersion: range, quartile deviation, mean deviation from mean and median, standard deviation and coefficient of variation.  
*  Concepts of Skewness and kurtoses and its importance.  

### Module 2: Correlation and Regression
*  Meaning, definition and use of correlation, covariance, scatter diagram, types of correlation. [cite: 1549]
*  Karl Pearson's correlation coefficient, Spearman's Rank correlation coefficient, probable error (theory only).  
*  Regression: meaning and utility, comparison between correlation and regression, regression lines x on y, y on x, regression equations and regression coefficients.  

### Module 3: Probability and Probability distributions
*  Introduction to probability, basic concepts of probability- classical definition, addition and multiplication rules.  
*  Probability distributions (theory only) - binomial, poisson and normal distributions.  

### Module 4: Introduction to Logic
*  Number series, coding decoding and odd man out series.  
*  Direction sense test, seating arrangements (linear and circular), blood relations.  
*  Arithmetic and geometric progressions.  
*  Inductive and deductive reasoning.  

---
## References
* Levin R. I. & Rubin D. S. *Statistics for Management*. Delhi: Pearson.  
* Pillai & Bagavathi.  *Statistics, Theory and Practice*, S Chand Publishing. 
* Gupta, SP.  *Statistical Methods*, Sultan Chand and Sons.  
* Gupta, SC.  *Fundamentals of Statistics*, Himalaya Publishing House.  
*  Sharma, Gupta, *The Practice of Business Statistics*, Khanna Publishing House.  
* Sharma J.K.  *Business Statistics*, Vikas Publishing House. 