---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "1"
course_code: "mg1ccrbba103"
course_title: "business-communication-i"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG1CCRBBA103 - Business Communication-I

 This course focuses on bringing in perspective the importance of Business Communication for organisations and individual employees in the context of multicultural workforce in a digital world.  The course will focus on instilling effective communication skills in students for an organisational set up.  The course will be taught using texts, cases and classroom exercises for improving both written and oral communication in students.   

---
## Course Objectives

*  To understand the concept, process, and importance of Business Communication. 
*  To help students in understanding the basic principles and techniques of business communication.  
*  To train students to acquire and master written communication for the corporate world.  
*  To sensitize students to understand Business Communication in Global and Cross-Cultural context.  

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Communication in Organisations
*  Introduction to Business Environment and Communication, Models of communication, Basics of Communication (types, channels and barriers).  
*  7Cs of communication, Formal and informal communication, Listening Skills, communication on social media platforms.  

### Module 2: Written Communication
*  Planning and executing different types of messages, emails, formal letters (Planning & Layout of Business Letter) and informal messages on e-platforms.  
*  Request letters to various stakeholders, Sales Letters, Complaint & Follow up Letters, Promotion Letters, Job application Letters, cover letters, resume, Resignation. 

### Module 3: Interpersonal Communication
*  Team communication, managing communication during online meeting, communication with virtual team, communication in gig economy.  
* Presentation skills (Verbal and non-verbal); PowerPoint presentation skills;  Infographics, introduction to contemporary alternatives (such as- Prezi, Visme, Microsoft Sway, Zoho). 

### Module 4: Digital Communication
* Social media and individual, social media & organisations, Media Literacy;  Strong Digital communication skills.  
*  Email, instant messaging, video conferencing, e-meetings, Digital collaboration, digital citizenship - digital etiquettes & responsibilities. 
*  Introduction to personal and organisational websites. 

---
## References
* AICTE's *Prescribed Communication Skills in English*, Khanna Book Publishing.  
* Lesikar, R.V.  & M.E. Flatley, "*Business Communication: Connecting in a Digital World*", McGraw-Hill Education.  
* Murphy, H. A., Hildebrandt, H. & Thomas, J.P., *Effective Business Communication*. McGraw Hill.  
* Mukerjee H. S., *Business Communication: Connecting at Work*. Oxford Publication.  
* Boove, C.L., Thill, J. V. & Raina, R. L, *Business Communication Today*, Pearson.  
* Pal, Rajendra & Korahill, *Essentials of Business Communication*, Sultan Chand & Sons, New Delhi. 
* Ramesh, MS, & C. C Pattanshetti, *Business Communication*, R. Chand & Co, New Delhi. 
* Rodriquez M V, -*Effective Business Communication Concept* Vikas Publishing Company. 