---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "1"
course_code: "mg1mdebbaa100"
course_title: "indian-systems-of-health-and-wellness"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG1MDEBBA100 - Indian Systems of Health and Wellness

This course aims to emphasize the significance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle by educating students on the essential aspects of physical and mental well-being.It seeks to raise awareness about lifestyle-related diseases and equips students with knowledge and strategies for effective stress management. 

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the importance of a healthy lifestyle. 
* To familiarize students about physical and mental health.
* To create an awareness of various lifestyle related diseases.
* To provide understanding of stress management.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Health & Wellness
* Definition of Health, Importance of health in everyday life.
* Components of health: physical, social, mental, spiritual and its relevance.
* Concept of wellness, Mental health and wellness, Determinants of health behaviour, Health and Wellness at work place.

### Module 2: Mind Body and Well-Being
* Mind body connection in health concept and relation, Implications of mind- body connection. 
* Wellbeing why it matters? Digital wellbeing.

### Module 3: Deficiency & Diseases
* Malnutrition, under nutrition and over nutrition, Body system and common diseases. 
* Sedentary lifestyle and risk of disease, Modern lifestyle and associated health risks. 

### Module 4: Indian system of well being
* Health beliefs of India, Health systems in India AYUSH. 
* Perspective of indigenous people towards health, happiness and well-being in India.

---
## References
* Carr, A. *Positive Psychology: The science of happiness and human strength*. UK: Routledge. 
*  Nyambichu, C. & Lumiri, Jeff, *Lifestyle Disease: Lifestyle Disease management*.