---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "1"
course_code: "mg1vacbba100"
course_title: "environmental-science-and-sustainability"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG1VACBBA100 - Environmental Science and Sustainability

This course aims to familiarize students with fundamental environmental concepts and their relevance to business operations, preparing them to address forthcoming sustainability challenges.It is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills needed to make decisions that account for environmental consequences, fostering environmentally sensitive and responsible future managers.
---
## Course Objectives

* To familiarize students with basic environmental concepts, their relevance to business operations, and forthcoming sustainability challenges. 
* This course will equip students to make decisions that consider environmental consequences. 
* This course will enable future business graduates to become environmentally sensitive and responsible managers.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Understanding Environment, Natural Resources, and Sustainability
* Fundamental environmental concepts and their relevance to business operations;Components and segments of the environment, the man-environment relationship, and historical environmental movements.
* Concept of sustainability; Classification of natural resources, Sustainable practices in managing resources, including deforestation, water conservation, energy security, and food security issues. 

### Module 2: Ecosystems, Biodiversity, and Sustainable Practices
* Various natural ecosystems, learning about their structure, functions, and ecological characteristics. 
* The importance of biodiversity, the threats it faces, and the methods used for its conservation. 
* Ecosystem resilience, homeostasis, and carrying capacity, emphasizing the need for sustainable ecosystem management.
* Strategies for in situ and ex situ conservation, nature reserves, and the significance of India as a mega diverse nation. 

### Module 3: Environmental Pollution, Waste Management, and Sustainable Development
* Various types of environmental pollution (air, water, noise, soil, marine) and their impacts on businesses and communities.   
* Causes of pollution, such as global climate change, ozone layer depletion, the greenhouse effect, and acid rain.  
* Solid waste management;Natural and man-made disasters and their management.  
### Module 4: Social Issues, Legislation, and Practical Applications
*  Dynamic interactions between society and the environment, with a focus on sustainable development and environmental ethics.  
*  Role of businesses in achieving sustainable development goals and promoting responsible consumption.  
*  Overview of key environmental legislation like the Water Act 1974, Environment Act 1986, and Air Act 1981.  
*  Environmental justice, environmental refugees, and the resettlement and rehabilitation of affected populations.   

---
## References
* Poonia, M.P.  *Environmental Studies*, Khanna Book Publishing Co.  
* Bharucha, E. *Textbook of Environmental Studies*, Orient Blackswan Private Ltd.  
* Dave, D., & Katewa, S. S. *Text Book of Environmental Studies*. Cengage Learning India Pvt Ltd.  
* Rajagopalan, R. *Environmental studies: from crisis to cure*, Oxford University Press.  
* Miller, G.T. & Spoolman S. *Living in the Environment*.Cengage. 
* Basu, M., & Xavier Savarimuthu, S. J. *Fundamentals of environmental studies*.Cambridge University Press.  
* Roy, M. G. *Sustainable Development: Environment, Energy and Water Resources*.Ane Books.  
* Pritwani, K. *Sustainability of business in the context of environmental management*. CRC Press.  
* Wright, R.T. & Boorse, D.F. *Environmental Science: Toward A Sustainable Future* (13th ed.).Pearson.  