---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "ba2crt07"
course_title: "business-communication"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA2CRT07 - Business Communication

This course aims to help students understand the nuances of business communication.

---
## Course Objectives

* Understand the basics, process, and principles of communication.
* Identify different media and channels of communication.
* Develop effective listening skills.
* Master the art of writing various types of business letters and departmental communications.
* Learn about modern trends in business communication.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Basis of communication
* Meaning, importance & process, Need & objectives of communication, 7c's of communication, Barriers of communication, How to overcome communication Barrier.
* Practical exercises in communication.

### Module 2: Media of communication
* Means /Media of communication - verbal & Non-verbal communication channel of communication formal & informal communication.
* Types of communication. Downward, upward, Horizontal or lateral, Diagonal or cross.

### Module 3: Listening as a communication Tool
* Importance types of listening, Barriers to effective Listening.
* How to make listening effective.

### Module 4: Business Letter Writing
* Need, Functions and kinds, Letters, Request Letters, Sales Letters, Complaints and adjustments.
* Departmental Communication: Meaning, Need and Types, Interview Letters, Promotion Letters, Resignation Letters, News Letters, Circulars, Agenda, Notice, Office Memorandums, Office Orders.

### Module 5: New Trends in Business communication
* E mail, Teleconferencing, video conferencing, SMS.

---
## References
* *Business communication* - R.C. Bhatia, Ane Books Pvt. Ltd.
* *Business communication* - R.K. Madhukar, Vikas Publishing House Pvt Ltd.
* *Effective Technical communication* - Ashraf Rizvi, McGraw Hill Education (India) Private Limited.
* *Business communication essentials* - Courtland Bovée And John Thill, Pearson, 2015.
* *Fundamentals of business communication* - P.D. Chaturvedi, Mukesh Chaturvedi, Pearson, 2012.