---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "ba2cmt08"
course_title: "mathematics-for-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA2CMT08 - Mathematics for Management

The aim of this course is to develop analytical and critical thinking skills and to analyse managerial problems in the light of mathematics and solving in such situations.

---
## Course Objectives

* To develop scientific ability.
* To know about modern trends in mathematics.
* To know about problems in industry and management and to learn how to solve the problem.
* To have research in Managerial Sciences.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Plane Analytic Geometry -1
* This module consists of Cartesian coordinate system, Length of line segment, Section formulae, area of a triangle and collinearity of three points.

### Module 2: Plane Analytic Geometry -2
* Gradient of a straight line, different equations of straight lines, parallelism and perpendicularity and concurrency of three lines. (All derivations in analytic geometry excluded).

### Module 3: Arithmetic Progression
* Arithmetic Progression, sum of the series in AP.

### Module 4: Geometric Progression
* Geometric Progression, Sum of series in GP.

### Module 5: Interest and Annuities
* Calculation of interests and discounts, Present value and annuities, Computing present value of money, Computing present value of annuities.

---
## References
* *Business Mathematics* - S.Saha.
* *Business Mathematics* - D.C. Sanchet & V.K Kapoor (Sultan Chand & Sons).
* *Business Mathematics* - Lloyd D Brooks, AITBS Publishers and distributers, New Delhi.