---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "ba2cmt09"
course_title: "statistics-for-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA2CMT09 - Statistics for Management

This course aims to provide a general outlook of certain statistical test which are useful to researchers in various fields.

---
## Course Objectives

* To have some idea about probability and probability distributions.
* To develop the concept of a sampling distributions.
* To formulate hypothesis about various population parameters.
* To conduct various statistical tests.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Probability Theory
* Basic concepts in probability, Addition theorem and Multiplication theorem (Two events), conditional probability, Baye's Theorem (without proof).

### Module 2: Random variables and Theoretical distributions
* Random variables, Discrete and continuous random variables (Definition), Binomial, Poisson and Normal Distributions- Definition-Mean and variance (without derivation), Properties.

### Module 3: Sampling
* Introduction, Methods of sampling, Statistics and Parameters.
* Sampling distribution, standard error, central limit theorem (statement only).

### Module 4: Large sample tests
* Introduction, procedure of testing Hypothesis, Test of significance for attributes.
* Test of significance for mean (Single sample only).

### Module 5: Chi - square Test & Goodness of fit
* Introduction, Definition, chi-square test of goodness of fit (Fitting of distributions is excluded), chi-square test of independence.
* Uses, limitations.

---
## References
* *Statistical methods* - S.P. Gupta- Sultan Chand & sons, Revised edition 1995.
* *Basic Statistics* - B.L Agarwal.
* *Fundamentals of mathematical Statistics* - S.P. Gupta and V.K. Kapoor, Sultan Chand & sons, Revised edition 1989.
* *Statistics for Management* - Sharma Ananad, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.
* *Statistics for management* - Richard Levin and David S Rubin.