---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "sw2cmt06"
course_title: "general-psychology"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW2CMT06 - General Psychology

This course aims to help students understand the dynamics of human behaviour, gain insight into the components of general psychology, and learn the basic mechanisms of mental processes.

---
## Course Objectives

* To help the students to understand the dynamics of behaviour in terms of heredity and environment as shapers of personality.
* To help the students to gain an insight into the components of general psychology.
* To introduce the students to the basic mechanism of mental processes.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Foundations of Psychology  
* Definition, branches of Psychology, scope and methods.
* Sensation and Perception, Consciousness.
* Learning: Definitions and theories (Classical conditioning, Instrumental, Observational).
* Memory: Definition, Memory process, Types of memory.
* Cognition: Thinking, Reasoning, Problem solving, Decision making and Language.

### Module 2: Motivation and Intelligence  
* Motivation: Definition, Theories (Drive, Incentive, Opponent process, Abraham Maslow's theory).
* Intelligence: Definition, Theories (Factor, Gardner's, Process oriented), Assessment (IQ tests).
* Individual differences and Intelligence: Heredity and Environment.

### Module 3: Theories of Personality  
* Psychoanalytical theory (Sigmund Freud).
* Psycho-social theory (Eric Erickson).
* Client Centred Theory (Carl Roger).
* Self-Actualization Theory (Abraham Maslow).

### Module 4: Mental Health and Disorders  
* Concept of Mental Health: Definition, characteristics.
* Psychological Disorders: Mental retardation, OCD, Schizophrenia and Mood Disorders.

### Module 5: Conflict and Stress  
* Conflict and its types.
* Stress Management Techniques.

---
## References
* Ahuja, N. A. (1995) *A Short Textbook of Psychiatry*. New Delhi: Jaypee Brothers.
* Crider, et al. (1989). *Psychology*. New York: Scott. Foresman.
* Fellin, P. (1996). *Mental Health and Mental Illness*. Illinois: FEPeackck.
* Fernald, L. D. & Fernald, P. S.(1999). *Introduction to Psychology*. New Delhi: AITBS Publishers.
* Kaila, et al. (2001). *Stress Management: Western and Indian Techniques*. Mumbai: Himalaya Publishers.
* Mangal, S. K. (2006). *General Psychology*. New Delhi: Sterling.
* Morgan, et al. (1997). *Introduction to Psychology*. New York: McCraw-Hillbook Co.