---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "sw1cmt02"
course_title: "economics-for-social-work-practice"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW1CMT02 - Economics for Social Work Practice

This course introduces basic economic concepts and principles relevant to social work, helping students identify economic factors in social problems and analyze the economic dimensions of development.

---
## Course Objectives

* To introduce the basic economic concepts and principles for social work practice.
* To identify economic factors involved in social problems.
* To analyse the economic dimensions of development processes and outcomes.

---
##  Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Economics  
* Definitions, Fundamental economic concepts: Scarcity & Choice, Factors of production, Economic Systems.
* Overview of micro and macroeconomics.
* Importance of the study of economics for social work.

### Module 2: Theory of Demand and Supply  
* Concept of Utility, Law of diminishing marginal utility.
* Demand: law of demand, Elasticity of Demand (price, income, cross).
* Production, supply, law of supply, elasticity of supply.
* Basic concepts in Cost and Revenue.

### Module 3: Forms of Market, Factor Pricing and Distribution  
* Definition of market, Market equilibrium.
* Market structures (perfect competition, monopoly, monopolistic completion, oligopoly).
* Income distribution and Factor pricing: rent, wages, interest and profit.

### Module 4: National Income: Meaning and Concept  
* Concept of Social accounting, circular flow of Income.
* Important National income aggregates (GDP, GNP, NDP, etc.).
* The measurement of National Income.

### Module 5: Economics of Development  
* Economic growth and Economic development.
* Human Development, Indicators (PQLI & HDI), Amartya Sen's Capability approach.
* Features of underdevelopment and obstacles to economic development.
* Impact of millennium development goals and significance of sustainable development goals.

---
## References
* Dewett, K.K (1997). *Modern Economic Theory* (35th ed). New Delhi: S. Chand & Company.
* Dholakia, R.H &Oza, A.N.(1997). *Microeconomics For Management Students*. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.
* Jhingan, M.L. (2005). *The Economics of Development and Planning* (38th ed.). New Delhi: Vrinda publications.
* Jhingan, M.L. (2010). *Macro Economic Theory* (12th ed.). New Delhi: Vrinda publications.
* Thirlwall, A.P (2011). *Economics of Development* (9th ed.). London: Palgrave Macmillan.