---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-commerce"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "co6crt17"
course_title: "cost-accounting-2"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# CO6CRT17 - Cost Accounting - 2

This course aims to acquaint the students with different methods and techniques of costing and to enable them to identify the methods and techniques applicable for different types of industries.

---
## Course Objectives

* To learn the accounting procedures for specific order costing methods like Job, Batch, and Contract costing.
* To understand and apply operating costing methods for service industries.
* To manage accounting for process costing, including process losses, joint products, and by-products.
* To use marginal costing and break-even analysis for decision-making.
* To understand the framework of budget and budgetary control.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Specific Order Costing 
* Job Costing: Meaning, Procedure.
* Batch Costing: Meaning, Procedure, Economic Batch Quantity.
* Contract Costing: Meaning, Objectives, Work-in-Progress, Profit on Incomplete Contract, Escalation Clause, Cost-plus Contract.

### Module 2: Operating Costing  
* Definition and application for service industries.
* Transport costing, Canteen costing, Hospital costing.

### Module 3: Process Costing  
* Process Accounts, Process Losses (Normal and Abnormal), Abnormal Gain.
* Joint Products and By-products.
* Methods of Apportioning Joint costs, Accounting for By-products.

### Module 4: Marginal Costing and Break Even Analysis  
* Marginal Costing vs. Absorption Costing, Differential Costing.
* Break Even Analysis, Cost Volume Profit (CVP) Analysis, Break even chart.
* Marginal Costing and Decision Making: Pricing Decisions, Key Factor, Make or Buy, Sales Mix, Acceptance of foreign Order.

### Module 5: Budget and Budgetary Control  
* Meaning, Definition, Objectives, Steps in budgetary control.
* Budget Manual, Budget Committee, Budget key factor.
* Types of budgets, Preparation of Cash Budget and Flexible Budget.
* Zero base Budgeting, Performance Budgeting.

---
## References
* Jain, S.P., & Narang, K.L., *Advanced Cost Accounting*, Kalyani Publishers, New Delhi.
* Iyengar, S. P., *Cost Accounting*, Sultan Chand & Sons, New Delhi.
* Maheswary, S.N., *Advanced Cost Accounting*, Sultan Chand & Sons, New Delhi.
* Arora, M. N., *Cost Accounting*, Vikas Publishing House Pvt. Ltd, New Delhi.
* Shukla, M.C., & Grewal, T. S., *Cost Accounting*, Sultan Chand & Sons, New Delhi.
* Madegowda, J, *Advanced cost accounting*, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.
* Lall Nigam B M and Jain I C, *Cost Accounting Principles and Practice*, Prentice Hall of India.
