---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-commerce"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "co1crt01"
course_title: "dimensions-and-methodology-of-business-studies"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# CO1CRT01 - Dimensions and Methodology of Business Studies

This course aims to provide a foundational understanding of business, its role in society, the business environment, and the integration of ethics, technology, and research methodologies in modern business practices.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand business and its role in society.
* To have an understanding of Business ethics and CSR.
* To comprehend the business environment and various dimensions.
* To familiarise Technology integration in business.
* To introduce the importance and fundamentals of business research.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Business and Environment 
* Business: Functions, Scope, Significance, Objectives.
* Forms of business organisations.
* Stakeholders of business.
* Business Environment: Definition, Features, Importance, Components (Internal, external, Micro, macro).
* Global business environment.

### Module 2: Business in India  
* Stages and developments of business in the Indian economy since independence.
* Role of public, private, co-operative sectors.
* Liberalisation, Privatisation and Globalization.
* Disinvestment Outsourcing.
* Recent economic initiatives: Niti Ayog Make in India initiative.

### Module 3: Technology integration in business 
* E-Commerce: Meaning, Functions, Operation, Types (B2C, B2B, C2C, C2B, B2E, B2G, P2P).
* M-Commerce: Meaning, Advantages, Challenges.
* E-Payment systems (brief study): Debit/Credit card, Net banking, Digital wallet, e-cheque, e-cash, Payment gateway.

### Module 4: Business Ethics  
* Importance and Principles of business ethics.
* Factors influencing Business Ethics.
* Arguments in favour and against business ethics.
* Social responsibility of business: objectives and principles.
* Corporate Governance: Meaning, importance, Objectives, Principles.

### Module 5: Business Research  
* Research: Meaning and Definition, Importance, Quantitative and qualitative approach, Inductive and deductive reasoning.
* Major Types of Research (Pure, Applied, Exploratory, Descriptive, Empirical, Analytical).
* Business Research: Elements, Management Research Objectives.
* Research Methods vs Research Methodology.
* Research Process(brief outline only), Research report.

---
## References
* Davis, Keith and Frederick, William C.: *Business and Society Management, Public Policy, Ethics*.
* Drucker, Peter F.: *Management Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices*.
* Drucker, Peter F.: *The Practice of Management*.
* Joseph, P.T., S.J, *E-Commerce: An Indian Perspective*, Prentice Hall of India.
* Bajaj, Kamalesh K and Nag, Debjani: *E-Commerce, the Cutting Edge of Business*, Tata McGraw Hill.
* Schneider: *E-Commerce*, Thomson Publication.
* Murthy, CSV, *Business Ethics*, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.
* Kothari, CR, *Research Methodology*, New Age Publishers.
* Krishnaswamy, OR: *Research Methodology*- Himalaya Publications.
* Badi, N V and Badi, R.V.: *Business Ethics*: Vrinda Publications.
* Cherunilam, Fransis, *Business environment*, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.
* Fernando, A, C,. *Business Environment*, Pearson, New Delhi.
* Francis, Ronald & Mishra, Muktha, *Business Ethics: An Indian Perspective*, Tata McGraw Hill Pvt Ltd, New Delhi.
* Sharma, J.P., *Corporate Governance, Business Ethics, and CSR*, Ane Books Pvt Ltd, New Delhi.
* Ghosh, B.N., *Business Ethics and Corporate Governance*, Tata McGraw Hill Pvt Ltd, Delhi.
