---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-commerce"
version: "2024"
semester: "2"
course_code: "co2crt04"
course_title: "financial-accounting-ii"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# CO2CRT04 - Financial Accounting II

The objective of this course is to acquaint the students with the preparation of books of accounts of various types of business activities and application of important accounting standards.

---
## Course Objectives

* To learn the accounting procedures for hire purchase systems, including default and repossession.
* To handle accounting for dependent and independent branches.
* To prepare departmental accounts and manage inter-departmental transfers.
* To understand the accounting procedures for the dissolution of a partnership firm.
* To gain a theoretical understanding of key Accounting Standards (AS).

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Accounting for Hire Purchase  
* Meaning and Features of Hire Purchase System.
* Interest Calculation.
* Recording Transactions in the Books of both Parties.
* Default and Repossession (Complete and Partial).

### Module 2: Branch Accounts  
* Objectives, Features, Types.
* Accounting for Branches: Debtors System, Stock and Debtors System.
* Independent Branches and Incorporation of Branch Accounts.
* Cash in Transit and Goods in Transit, Consolidated Balance Sheet.

### Module 3: Departmental Accounts  
* Meaning, Objectives, Advantages.
* Distinction between branch and department.
* Accounting Procedure, Allocation of Expenses and Income.
* Inter-Departmental Transfers, Provision for Unrealized Profits.

### Module 4: Accounting for Dissolution of partnership firm  
* Settlement of Accounts on dissolution.
* Insolvency of a partner, application of Garner Vs Murray Case.
* Settlement of accounts when all partners are insolvent.
* Piecemeal distribution: Highest Relative Capital Method, Maximum Possible Loss method.

### Module 5: Accounting Standards 
* Importance, Accounting Standards Board.
* Applicability of Accounting Standards.
* Brief learning of AS1, AS2, AS9, AS10 and AS 19 (Theory only).

---
## References
* Jain S.P & Narang K.L., *Advanced Accountancy*, Kalyani Publishers, New Delhi.
* Maheshwari, S.N., & Maheswari, S.K., *Advanced Accountancy*, Vikas Publishing House, New Delhi.
* Shukla, M.C., & Grewal, T.S., *Advanced Accountancy*, S Chand and Company Pvt.Ltd, New Delhi.
* Sehgal, Ashok & Sehgal, Deepak, *Financial Accounting*, Taxmann Allied Service (Pvt) Ltd, New Delhi.
* Paul, S. K., & Paul, Chandrani, *Advanced Accountancy*, New Central Book Agency, New Delhi.
* Arulanandam, MA and Raman, KS, *Advanced Accountancy*, Himalaya Publications, Mumbai.
* Raman B S, *Financial Accounting*, United Publishers.
