---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "sw6crt24"
course_title: "social-work-practice-with-children"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW6CRT24 - Social Work Practice with Children

This course provides specialized knowledge on child development, issues faced by children, relevant national laws and policies, and social work intervention methods for working with children.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the key concepts related to child development and social work with children.
* To impart to the trainee, specific social work intervention methods in dealing with children.
* To create an understanding about the national laws and policies related to children.
* To understand the problems faced by the children.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Child Development
* Physical, Social, Emotional and Cognitive Development in Infancy and Toddlerhood, Early Childhood, Middle Childhood and Adolescence.

### Module 2: Issues and Disorders of Childhood
* Issues faced by Children: Abuse, Violence, Street Children, Child Marriage, Children with Disabilities, Child Labour, Trafficking, etc.
* Childhood Disorders: Conduct Disorders, Anxiety Disorders, Depression, Eating Disorders, Mental Retardation, Learning Disabilities, etc.

### Module 3: Process of Helping Children
* Building Relationships, Assessment, intervention, follow up and evaluation.

### Module 4: National Laws and Policies for Children
* Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
* The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.
* Prohibition of Child Marriage Act.
* Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act (2000).
* Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act.
* National Policy for Children.

### Module 5: Methods and Services
* Methods of Working with children: Working with Family, Play Therapy, Group Work with Children, School based interventions, Life Skill Trainings.
* Government Services: Career options in the field of children - Child line, DCPU, School Counsellors.

---
## References
* AysheTalay-Ongan, E. A. (2005). *Child Development and Teaching Young Children*. Australia: Cengage Learning.
* Berger, K. S. (2000). *The Developing Person*. New York: Worth Publications.
* Carolyn Spray, B. J. (2011). *Social Work Practice with Children and Families*. SAGE.
* Dean Hepworth, Ronald Rooney, et al. (2009). *Direct Social Work Practice: Theory and Skills*. Cengage Learning.
* Eric J. Mash, R. A. (2006). *Treatment of Childhood Disorders*. Guilford Press.
* Gifford, C. (2009). *Child Labour*. Evans Brothers.
* Meggitt, C. (2006). *Child Development: An Illustrated Guide*. Heinemann.
* Owens Karen B(2002). *Child and Adolescent Development and Integrated Approach*. Stamford Thomson Learning.
* Nancy Boyd Webb (July 2011). *Social Work Practice with Children, Third Edition*. Guilford Press.
* Ridge, T. (2002). *Childhood Poverty and Social Exclusion: From a Child's Perspective*. Policy Press.