---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "sw6get26"
course_title: "disability-studies"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW6GET26 - Disability Studies

This course provides an in-depth understanding of disabilities, their social construction, various approaches, constitutional provisions, and the role of social work in the rehabilitation and inclusion of persons with disabilities.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the meaning, context of disabilities and problems of person with disabilities.
* To develop knowledge about various approaches, magnitude, causes and consequences of disabilities.
* To gain an insight into the magnitude, causes, types, and impact of various impairments.
* To review and understand the constitutional provisions, rights and legislations targeting inclusion.
* To foster understanding on the role of a multi-disciplinary team and social worker in rehabilitation.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Understanding Disability  
* Meaning and Definition: Impairment, Activity Limitations and Participation Restrictions.
* Social Construction of Disability: Attitude, Stigma, Discrimination.
* Familial and Societal Context of Person with Disabilities and problems faced.

### Module 2: Approaches and Context  
* Approaches to disability: Medical, System, Legal, Socio-Political, Human Right, etc.
* Magnitude, Causes, and Consequences of Disability.

### Module 3: Specific Impairments I  
* Visual Impairment: Magnitude, Causes, Types, Assessment, Impact.
* Hearing Impairment: Magnitude, Causes, Types, Assessment, Impact.
* Deaf-blindness.

### Module 4: Specific Impairments II  
* Loco motor Disability: Magnitude, Causes, Types, Assessment, Impact.
* Cerebral Palsy: Magnitude, Causes, Types, Assessment, Impact.

### Module 5: Legislation and Rehabilitation (20 Hours)
* Constitutional Provisions and Rights of Person with Disabilities; UNCRPD; The Person with Disability Act, 1995; National Trust Act, 1999.
* The Rehabilitation Council of India Act, 1992.
* Models of Rehabilitation: Institution Based and Community Based Rehabilitation.
* Role of Social Workers in the Process of Rehabilitation.

---
## References
* Goldenson, Robert M. (1978). *Disability and Rehabilitation Handbook*, McGraw Hill Inc.
* Albrecht, G., Seelman, K., Bury, M (ed) 2001, *Handbook of Disability Studies*, New Delhi: Sage Publication.
* Karna, G (2001) *Disability Studies In India: Retrospects and Prospectus*, New Delhi; Gyan Publishing House.
* Narasimhan, M.S. and Mukherjee, A.K. (1988). *Disability: A Continuing Challenge*. New Delhi: Wiley Eastern Ltd.