---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "sw6get27"
course_title: "social-work-practice-with-elderly"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW6GET27 - Social Work Practice with Elderly

This course provides a comprehensive understanding of the aging process, the issues and challenges faced by the elderly, relevant theories, and the application of social work practice in this field.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the key concepts related to aging and social work with elderly.
* To equip students with necessary skills in social work with elderly.
* To create an understanding about the laws policies and programmes related to elderly.
* To understand the theoretical framework of working with elderly.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: The Meaning and Concept of Old Age  
* Elderly: Definition and Characteristics, Physical, biological and social changes.
* Population ageing: Global, India, Kerala scenario.
* World Assembly on Ageing, International day for elderly.

### Module 2: Issues and Challenges of Elderly 
* Life expectancy, Demographic transition.
* Key issues: Depression, Dementia, Alzheimer, Empty nest syndrome, Isolation, Abuse, Generation gap.
* Widowhood, Death, Bereavement, Euthanasia.

### Module 3: Theories of Aging  
* Role Theory, Disengagement Theory, Continuity Theory.
* Age Stratification Theory, Social Exchange Theory.
* Critical Theory & Feminist Perspectives.

### Module 4: Laws, Policies & Programs for Elderly  
* Senior Citizen (Maintenance, Care and Protection) Act-2007.
* National Policy on Older People (NPOP)-1999 and National Policy on Senior Citizen 2011.
* Integrated Programmes for the Older Persons, Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme (IGNOPS).
* Institutions and organizations for elderly in Kerala.

### Module 5: Social Work Practice with Elderly  
* Application of Case work, Group Work and Community Organization for practice with Elderly.
* Role of Social Worker: Assessment and Care Management.
* Skills required in Social Work with older people.

---
## References
* Dandekar, Kumudini(1996), *The Elderly in India*, Sage Publications India, New Delhi.
* Elizabeth, B., H. (1980) *Developmental Psychology. A Life Span Approach*. McGraw-Hill Companies.
* Greene, Roberta R(1986), *Social work with Aged &their Families*, Al dine de Gruyter, New York.
* Helms, Donald B & Turner, Jeffrey S. (1991) *Lifespan Development*, Holt, Rinchart&Winston. Inc., Chicago.
* Hooyman, Nancy & Kiyak, H. Asuman (1999) *Social Gerontology*, Allyn and Bacon.
* Lymberg, Mark, (2007), *Social Work with Older People*, Sage Publications, New Delhi.
* Rajan, S. Irudaya, Mishra U.S &Sarma, Sankara.P (1999) *India's Elderly: Burden or Challenge?* Sage Publications India Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi.