---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "sw4crt14"
course_title: "administration-of-non-profit-organisations"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW4CRT14 - Administration of Non-profit organisations

This course provides essential knowledge and skills for the administration and management of Non-Profit Organizations (NPOs), covering administrative processes, legal procedures, and strategic functions.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the requirements of NGO Administration.
* To develop the skills of NGO Administration.
* To understand the legal process and procedures in initiating and running an NGO.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Administration  
* Administration: Meaning, scope & principles.
* Administrative process in Social Work agencies (Planning, Organizing, Staffing, Directing, Coordinating, Reporting, Financial administration).
* Principles & practice of Non-Profit Organization (NPO) administration.

### Module 2: Social Welfare Administration  
* Definition, characteristics; a method in Social Work.
* Role and functions of NGOs in the social welfare and development sector.
* Classifications of NGOs: service providers, empowerment NGOs, support NGOs, network NGOs.
* Problems faced by Voluntary Organisations.

### Module 3: Philosophy of NPOs  
* Development of the vision, mission, objectives, organizational structure.
* Strategies for marketing, innovation and fund management in NGOs.
* The performance audit of NPOs.

### Module 4: Registration of NPOs  
* Registration of Societies and Trusts: Societies Registration Act, Trust Act.
* Functions of Governing Board.
* Provisions in Income Tax Act: TDS, FCRA, 12A, 35AC, 80G.
* NITI AAYOG.

### Module 5: Skill requirement in NPOs  
* Fundraising, Networking and Advocacy.
* Community mobilization, documentation and reporting skills.
* Social Marketing.

---
## References
* Sachdeva D.R,: *Scoial Welfare Administration in India*. Delhi: KitabMahal.
* Department of Social Welfare Administration: *Management of Non-profit organisations in the changing Development Scenario*.
* Rex A. Skidmore: *Social Work Administration-Dynamic Management & Human Relationships*.
* Goel S.C, Jain R.K. (1988). *Social Welfare Administration Volume 1*. New Delhi: Deep & Deep Publications.
* B K Prasad: *NGOs and development Vol. 1*.
* Lee, Nancy R., Kotler, Philip. *Social Marketing- Influencing Behaviours for Good*.
* Dr. D Paul Chowdry: *Social Welfare Administration*.