---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "sw4crt15"
course_title: "research-and-statistics-for-social-work-practice"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW4CRT15 - Research and Statistics for Social Work Practice

This course provides foundational knowledge in research methodology and statistics, enabling students to apply these concepts in social work practice, from proposal development to data analysis and reporting.

---
## Course Objectives

* To develop a basic understanding of research methodology and statistics.
* To understand the importance and practical implications of Social Work Research as a Method of Social Work.
* To develop skills in selection and use of tools for data collection, processing, and statistical analysis.
* To apply research concepts and statistical tools in preparing research proposals, data analysis and reporting.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Social Work Research  
* Meaning and definition of research, need and relevance.
* Scientific Method, ethical considerations in research.
* Approaches: inductive and deductive, quantitative and qualitative.
* Social research and Social Work Research: Need and scope.

### Module 2: Research Design 
* Problem formulation in research: problem identification, review of literature, defining objectives.
* Concepts/constructs, variables, hypothesis formulation.
* Research Design: Meaning, components and types (Exploratory, descriptive, experimental, survey, Case study).

### Module 3: Sampling and Data Collection  
* Sampling: Universe, advantages, sampling frame and unit.
* Types of Sampling: Probability and non-probability sampling.
* Sources of data: Primary and secondary.
* Methods of Data Collection: Interviewing, Questionnaire, Observation, Focused Group Discussion.
* Tools for Data Collection, Pilot study, pre-testing of tools.
* Data processing: editing, coding, classification, tabulation.

### Module 4: Statistics in Research  
* Statistics: uses and limitation in research.
* Measures of central tendency: mean, median, mode.
* Measures of dispersion: range, mean deviation, standard deviation, quartile deviation.
* Correlation: Pearson's Coefficient of correlation, Spearman's Rank correlation.
* Test of hypothesis / Use of SPSS in data analysis.

### Module 5: Research Report  
* Presentation of statistical data: tabular and graphic.
* Interpretation of statistical data.
* Writing research report: components, abstract, bibliography and references, use of APA format.

---
## References
* Edwards, T. (2011). *Research Design and Staistics*. New Delhi: Tata Mcgraw Hill.
* Thanulingom, N. (2000). *Research Methodology*. Mumbai: Himalaya Publishing House.
* Garg, C. R. (2014). *Research Methodology: Methods and Technique* (Third Edition). New Delhi: New Age International Publishers.
* Kothari, C. R. (1985). *Research Methodology*. New Delhi: Wishwa Prakashan.
* Griffith, A. (2007). *SPSS for Dummies*. New Delhi: Wiley India.
* Babbie Earl. (2007). *The Practice of Social Research*. Bilmont, USA: Thomson Wardworth.