---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "sw4cmt16"
course_title: "management-concepts-and-skills-for-social-work-practice"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW4CMT16 - Management concepts and skills for social work practice

This course provides students with a basic understanding of management concepts, processes, and organizational dynamics, tailored to their application in social work and non-profit settings.

---
## Course Objectives

* To develop a basic understanding about the management concepts and principles.
* To understand the different theoretical approaches to management.
* To be familiar with the motivating factors and skills in working in teams in an organisation.
* To understand the dynamism of an organization including the administrative structures, processes and procedures.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Management  
* Definition, Principles, Concepts of Management, Managerial functions.
* Human service administration and management, significance in social work practice.
* Management Communication, MIS, Public relation.

### Module 2: Management Process I 
* Planning & Decision making: process, techniques and relevance in NGO Management.
* Organizing: importance, types, process, principles, organizational structure.
* HR management: Staffing, human resource planning, Job analysis, Recruitment, selection, training and development, Performance appraisal.

### Module 3: Management Process II  
* Employee rights: remuneration, incentives, P.F., insurance, pension schemes etc.
* Motivation of staff, Motivational theories.
* Leading/Directing: Leadership types and theories.
* Controlling: process, effective control system, techniques.
* Reporting: definition, types.

### Module 4: Organizational Behavior and Organizational Development 
* Organizational Behaviour, Job satisfaction, Job enrichment.
* Organizational Development, Conflict resolution, creating positive climate.
* Organizational change: Concept, forces of change and resistance to change.

### Module 5: Management training for social work practitioners (8 hours)
* Significance of Management training for Social Work Practitioners.
* NGO Management.
* Role, tasks, and skills of a manager.

---
## References
* Rao V.S.P & Narayana P.S. *Principles and Practice of Management*, Konark Publishers Pvt. Ltd.
* Rao V.S.P (2005). *Human Resource Management Text and Cases* (2nd edition). Excel Books, Delhi.
* Rao V.S.P (2009). *Organizational Behavior*, Excel Books, Delhi.
* Rao V.S.P (2012). *Management Text and Cases* (2nd edition). Excel Books, Delhi.