---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "sw4cmt17"
course_title: "community-health-and-health-care-services"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW4CMT17 - Community Health & Health Care Services

This course provides a comprehensive overview of community health, including key concepts, health issues, healthcare policies, and the role of social work in the health sector.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the basic concepts of Health and Community health.
* To understand the policies/services in health and implications for social work practice.
* To equip the students with skills for social work practice in community health sector.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Community Health  
* Health: Definition, Dimensions, Determinants, Spectrum of Health.
* Concept of well-being, Positive Health.
* Epidemiology: Definition, Objectives, Epidemiologic methods.
* Social Work in Community-based Health care.

### Module 2: Health Issues  
* Nutrition: Nutrients, Malnutrition.
* Environment and health: Components, Pollution, Health issues.
* Mental health: Characteristics, Causes, Types of mental illness, Mental Health services.
* Social Work Intervention in the area of mental health.

### Module 3: Demography and Family Planning  
* Demography, Demographic Cycle, Demographic trends in India.
* National Population Policy.
* Family Planning: Contraceptive methods.
* Reproductive and Child Health Program (RCH).

### Module 4: Health Education  
* Health Education: Approach, Contents, Models and Principles.
* Practice of health education in Schools, Families, and Communities.
* Alma Ata Declaration.

### Module 5: Health Care Systems and Programs  
* Concept of Health care, Levels of health care, Elements of primary health care.
* Health care system, Primary Health care in India.
* Voluntary and International Health Agencies.
* Health Programs in India (Vector borne diseases, TB, HIV/AIDS, Immunization, Family Welfare, etc.).
* Role of Social Worker in community health care services.

---
## References
* Bajpai, P.K. (1998). *Social Work Perspectives on Health*. Rawat Publications, New Delhi.
* Egan, Marcia. Kadushin, Goldie (2007). *Social Work Practice in Community-Based Health Care*. The Haworth Press, New York.
* Park, K. (2005). *Preventive and Social Medicine*. M/s BanarsidasBhanot Publishers, Jabalpur.
* Goel, S.L., Kumar, R. (2007). *Hospital Administration and Management- Theory and Practice*. New Delhi: Deep & Deep Publications Pvt. Ltd.
* Tabish, S.A. (2001). *Hospital & Health Services Administration*. New Delhi: Oxford University Press.