---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-commerce"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "co2crt05"
course_title: "business-regulatory-framework"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# CO2CRT05 - Business Regulatory Framework

 The objective of this course is to familiarise the students with the legal framework influencing business decisions 
---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the essentials of the Indian Contract Act, including valid contracts and e-contracts.
* To learn the legal framework for special contracts of bailment and pledge.
* To understand the laws governing contracts of indemnity and guarantee.
* To gain knowledge of the law of agency, including the rights and duties of agents and principals.
* To understand the key provisions of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.

---
## Course Contents
### Module 1: Law of Contract 
*  Definition and Kinds of Contracts (Valid, Void, Voidable, Contingent, Quasi, E-Contract) .
*  Essentials of a Valid Contract: Offer and Acceptance, Consideration, Capacity, Free Consent, Legality of Object .
*  Performance, Discharge, and Breach of Contract .
*  Remedies for Breach of Contract .

### Module 2: Special Contract I  
*  Bailment: Bailor and Bailee .
*  Finder of Lost Goods .
*  Pledge: Essentials, Rights and Duties of Pawner and Pawnee .

### Module 3: Special Contract II  
*  Indemnity: Meaning and Definition .
*  Guarantee: Kinds of Guarantee, Rights and Liabilities of Surety, Discharge of Surety .

### Module 4: Law of Agency 
* Essentials, kinds of agents, rights and duties of agent and principal.
* Creation and termination of agency.
* Sub-agents and substituted agents.

### Module 5: Sale of Goods Act, 1930  
* Essentials of Contract of Sale.
* Classification of Goods.
* Condition and Warranties.
* Transfer of Property in Goods.
* Right of Unpaid Seller, Buyer's Right Against Seller.
* Auction Sale.

---
## References
* Aswathappa, K., *Business Laws*, Himalaya Publishing House, Bengaluru.
* Kapoor, N.D., *Business Laws*, Sultan Chand publications New Delhi.
* Sharma,S.C., *Business Law*, International Publishers, Bengaluru.
* Tulsian, *Business Law*, McGraw-Hill Education Mumbai.
* Indian Contract Act No. IX, 1972.
* Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930.
