---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-commerce"
version: "2017"
semester: "2"
course_code: "co2crt06"
course_title: "business-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# CO2CRT06 - Business Management
The objective of this course is to familiarise the students with concepts and principles of management.

---
## Course Objectives

* To understand the fundamental concepts, functions, and principles of management.
* To learn the process of planning and the importance of coordination.
* To understand the principles of organizing, including authority, delegation, and decentralization.
* To gain insights into direction, leadership styles, and motivation theories.
* To get an overview of modern management techniques like TQM, BPR, and Six Sigma.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Management  
* Meaning, Nature, Scope and Functional Areas of Management.
* Management as a Science, Art and Profession.
* Management & Administration.
* Principles of Management.
* Contributions of F.W.Taylor and Henry Fayol.
* Managerial roles: Mintzberg Model.
* Functions of Management.

### Module 2: Planning  
* Planning: Meaning, Nature, Importance, Types of Plans.
* Planning Process, Barriers to Effective Planning.
* M.B.O: Features, Steps.
* Coordination: Meaning and Importance, Techniques for Effective Coordination.

### Module 3: Organizing 
* Organizing: Meaning, Nature, Importance, Principles.
* Types of Organisation, Organisation Chart, Organisation Manual.
* Centralization, Decentralization.
* Authority, Delegation of Authority, Responsibility and Accountability.

### Module 4: Direction and Control 
* Principles of direction.
* Leadership: Concept and Styles; Trait and Situational Theory, Managerial Grid, Likert's Four System Model.
* Motivation: Concept and Importance; Maslow's Need Hierarchy Theory;Herzberg's Two Factors Theory
* Control: Concept and Process, Control Techniques.

### Module 5: Management Techniques  
* Brief Study of: Quality circle, Total Quality Management (TQM), Business Process Reengineering (BPR), Six sigma, Kaizen[cite: 1545.

---
## References
* Koontz, O Donnell, *Management*, McGraw-Hill.
* Appaniah, Reddy, *Essentials of Management*, Himalaya Publishing House.
* Prasad, L. M., *Principles of management*, Sultan Chand and Sons.
* Srinivasan, Chunawalla, *Management Principles and Practice*, Himalaya Publishing House.
* Tulsian, P.C., & Pandey, Vishal, *Business Organization and Management*, Pearson Education.
