---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "6"
course_code: "ba6crt29"
course_title: "strategic-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA6CRT29 - Strategic Management

This course provides an introduction to the concepts, processes, and frameworks of strategic management.

---
## Course Objectives

* Understand the concept of corporate strategy and the strategic management process.
* Learn to conduct environmental scanning and internal analysis using tools like EFAS and IFAS.
* Gain knowledge in strategy formulation at the business, corporate, and functional levels.
* Analyze different strategy implementation methods, including organizational structure, M&A, and turnaround strategies.
* Understand the process of evaluating and controlling strategies and other strategic issues in SMEs and non-profit organizations.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1
* Introduction to Strategic Management, Concept of Corporate Strategy, Strategic Management Process, The 7-S Framework, Corporate Policy and Planning in India.

### Module 2
* Environmental Scanning, Industry Analysis, The synthesis of External Factors, External Factors Analysis Summary (EFAS).
* Internal Scanning, Value Chain Analysis, Synthesis of Internal Factors, Internal Factors Analysis Summary (IFAS).

### Module 3
* Strategy Formulation, Strategic Factors Analysis Summary (SFAS), Business Strategy, Corporate Strategy, Functional Strategy, Strategic Choice.

### Module 4
* Strategy Implementation, Organization Structure, Corporate Culture, Diversification, Mergers and Acquisitions, Turnaround strategies, Portfolio strategy (concepts only).

### Module 5
* Evaluation and control of strategies-strategic control-standard-benchmarking-cost benefit analysis-performance gap analysis-responsibility centres.
* Other Strategic Issues, Small and Medium Enterprises, Non-Profit Organizations.

---
## References
* *Strategic Management* - Robert A Pitts and David Lei, 4th Edition Cengage Learning, 2006.
* *Strategic Management* - Francis Chrunilam, Himalaya publications, Mumbai.
* *Strategic Management* - K.Govindabhat, Himalaya Publications, Mumbai.