---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "4"
course_code: "mg4ccrbba201"
course_title: "financial-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG4CCRBBA201 - Financial Management

Financial Management is offered with intent to equip the students with the basic knowledge of finance theory and its application to develop relevant financial strategies pertinent to profit-seeking organizations. The theme of financial management is structured around three decision making areas: Investment- long and short term, Financing and Dividend policy. This imbibes students with analytical and decision-making skills in managing finance through application of theoretical questions and practical problems.

---
## Course Objectives
* To apply the knowledge in taking finance decisions.
* To develop analytical skills to identify financial management problems and solve them.
* To analyse the relationship among capital structure, cost of capital, dividend decisions, and value of the business.
* To assess a firm's requirement for long-term assets by applying capital budgeting techniques.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Financial Management  
* Meaning of finance and financial management, Types of finance, Objective and Scope. Profit maximization vs wealth maximization.
* Financial decisions and their inter-relation.
* Sources of Finance: Ownership securities (Equity, Preference shares) and Creditorship securities (Debentures, Bonds).
* Internal financing, short term and long-term sources.

### Module 2: Capital structure and capitalization  
* Meaning of capitalization - Theories of capitalization (cost theory and earnings theory).
* Over capitalization and under capitalization (causes, effects, remedies).
* Meaning of capital structure, principles, Optimum Capital Structure, Determinants.
* Theories of Capital structure, EBIT-EPS Analysis (Practical Problems).

### Module 3: Cost of Capital, Leverage and Working Capital  
* Meaning and significance of cost of capital, components (Theory Only).
* Meaning of Leverage, Types of Leverages (operating, financial and combined), practical problems.
* Managing working Capital: Meaning, types, working capital cycle, determinants.
* Estimation of working capital (Practice problems), Management of cash, inventory and debtors.

### Module 4: Capital Budgeting and Dividend policy  
* Meaning of Capital Budgeting, Importance, Need, Time value of money.
* Capital budgeting process, project appraisal by using traditional and modern methods.
* Practical problems on Payback Period, Net Present Value, Profitability Index, IRR (Simple Problems).
* Dividend policy: Meaning, Kinds, Theories, determinants (Theory Only).

---
## References
* Khan, M, Y, & Jain, P, K. *Financial Management*. Tata Mc Graw Hill.
* Chandra, P. *Financial Management*. New Delhi, India. Tata McGraw Hill Book Co.
* Pandey, I.M. *Financial Management*. New Delhi, India. Vikas Publishing House.
* Kumar, A. *Financial Management*, Khanna Publishing House.
* Gupta, S, K., Sharma, R.K. & Gupta, N. *Financial Management*. Kalyani Publishers.
* Brigham and Houston. *Fundamentals of Financial Management*. Cengage Learning.
* Maheshwari, S.N. and Maheshwari, S.K. *Essentials of Financial Management*.