---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "4"
course_code: "mg4ccrbba202"
course_title: "operations-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG4CCRBBA202 - Operations Management

This course introduces students to the fundamental principles of operations management, focusing on planning, production systems, quality control, and emerging technologies. It simplifies complex concepts through case studies and practical examples to help students understand and apply operations management practices effectively in real-world scenarios.

---
## Course Objectives

* To enable students to understand the role and scope of operations management in business.
* To familiarize students with various types of production systems and process designs.
* To introduce quality control, production planning, and inventory management concepts.
* To highlight the importance of technology, sustainability, and global trends in operations.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Operations Management  
* Definition, importance, objectives; key decisions of operation manager. Production vs Operations Management.
* Production/operations functions; types of production systems (job shop, batch, continuous, cellular); five Ps of production.

### Module 2: Process and Planning and Control  
* Process Selection: Definition, Characteristics that influence the choice of alternative processes.
* Process types in manufacturing and services.
* Functions and objectives of production planning; steps in process planning; production planning techniques.
* Techniques of production control, capacity and layout decisions.

### Module 3: Material Management and Productivity Improvement Techniques  
* Materials and Inventory Management: Scope, purchasing methods, inventory control objectives.
* Work Study: Method study, Work measurement (time study, work sampling).
* Types of plant layouts; factors influencing plant layout.

### Module 4: Quality Management and Emerging Trends 
* Meaning of quality management; Quality control, importance and objectives.
* Principles of Total Quality Management (TQM), Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing.
* Emerging trends: sustainability, technological innovations (Industrial revolution 4.0, IoT).

---
## References
* Mahadevan, B, *Operations Management: Theory & Practice*, 3rd ed., Pearson Education.
* Muhlemann, Alan, Oakland, John et al.: *Production and Operations Management* Pearson, 6th edition.
* Chandrasekar, K.S., *Operations Management*, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.
* Adam Jr, Everetl E. & R J, *Production and Operations management*, prentice-hall, 5th ed.
* Chary, *Production and Operations management*, Tata mcgraw-hill, 9th edition.
* Hill T, *Operations Management*, palgrave, 2000.
* Haleem A, *Production and Operations management*, galgotia publication, 2004.