---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "4"
course_code: "mg4ccrbba203"
course_title: "industrial-relation"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG4CCRBBA203 - Industrial Relation

This course provides a comprehensive understanding of industrial relations, focusing on the dynamic interactions among workers, employers, and the state. It explores the core concepts, significance, and approaches to industrial relations, as well as the evolving role of trade unions and the global labour movement. The course examines the causes and resolution mechanisms of industrial disputes, including strikes, lockouts, and collective bargaining.

---
## Course Objectives

* To familiarize students with the fundamental concepts, significance, and theoretical approaches to industrial relations.
* To examine the role and development of trade unions, both in India and internationally, and their impact on industrial relations.
* To enable students to understand the causes and forms of industrial disputes and the institutional mechanisms for dispute resolution and grievance handling.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Concepts of Industrial Relations  
* Concept, Definition, Significance, Scope, Objectives.
* Approaches (Sociological, Psychological, Marxian, Trusteeship), Principles of good industrial relations.
* Role of State, Employers and the Unions in industrial relations.

### Module 2: Trade Unionism  
* Labour movement- Concepts, Trade union movement, Development of trade unionism in India.
* Types, Functions and problems of trade unions. Employers Organization.
* International Labour Organisations (ILO) - Origin, history, objectives and functions.

### Module 3: Industrial Disputes  
* Industrial conflicts: Meaning, Causes, Forms, and impact. Strike and Lockout concepts.
* Industrial relations machinery: Joint consultation, Works committee, Conciliations, Court of Enquiry, Voluntary arbitration, Adjudication.
* Collective Bargaining: Meaning, Characteristics, Need, Importance, Process, Causes for Failure.
* Grievance Handling: Meaning, Causes, Guidelines, Redressal procedures.

### Module 4: Workers Participation and Welfare  
* Works participation in management: forms, Importance, objectives, benefits and challenges.
* Workers education: significance, benefits, CBWE functions.
* Worker's welfare: types, benefits, Statutory Provisions in India connected with health, safety and welfare.

---
## References
* Mamoria, C.B. and Gankar, *Dynamics of Industrial Relations* 3rd Ed, 2013, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.
* Malik, P.L., *Hand Book of Labour and Industrial Law*, 12th Ed, 2009, Eastern Book Company Luck now.
* Srivastava SC, *Industrial Relations and Labour Laws*, 5th Ed, 2009, Vikas Publishing House Pvt Ltd, New Delhi.
* Sinha, P.R.N., InduBala & Shekhar, S.P, "*Industrial Relations, Trade Unions and Labour Legislations*", Pearson Education.
* Monappa, A, "*Industrial Relations*", TataMcGraw Hill Publishing Company Limited.
* Srivastava, S.C., "*Industrial Relations and Labour Laws*", Vikas Publications.
* Salamon, M., "*Industrial Relations: Theory and Practice*", Pearson Education, Financial Times Prentice Hall.