---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2024"
semester: "4"
course_code: "mg4secbba200"
course_title: "statistics-for-business"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# MG4SECBBA200 - Statistics for Business

This course introduces students to the use of statistics in business. It helps learners understand how to collect, organize, analyse, and interpret numerical data to make better business decisions. The course also aims to build skills in using common statistical and graphical methods to study and understand data in different areas of management.

---
## Course Objectives

* To introduce students to the fundamental concepts of statistics and its application in business decision-making.
* To help learners understand and analyse business data over time using time series techniques.
* To equip students with the skills to perform and interpret parametric and non-parametric statistical tests for hypothesis testing in business research.
* Perform basic inference tools in the data and arrive at conclusions about populations using spreadsheet/jamovi/spss/R.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Statistics in business 
* Introduction to Statistics: Meaning and Definition of Statistics, Nature, Importance.
* Scope and Limitations of Statistics, Classification of statistics, Role of Statistics in Management Decisions.

### Module 2: Time Series Analysis  
* Time Series Data, meaning, uses; Components of time series; Additive, Multiplicative models (Problems).
* Trend analysis application; Fitting of trend using principle of least squares (Free hand curve, Semi-averages, Moving averages, Least Square method) (Problems).

### Module 3: Statistical Inference  
* Tests of Hypothesis, procedure for testing, Critical region, Two types of error, Level of significance.
* Parametric test: Independent t-test, Paired t-test, One way ANOVA (problems).
* Non-Parametric test: Chi-Square (problems), Mann-Whitney U, Kruskal-Wallis, Wilcoxon matched pair, Friedman's two-way ANOVA (Theory only).

### Module 4: Practical Application  
* Illustrate the concepts in Module 3 Using spreadsheet/R/JAMOVI/OR any other software.
* A practical record with a minimum of 5 problems has to be submitted.

---
## References
* Gupta, S. C., & Gupta, I. *Business Statistics*. Mumbai, India: Himalaya Publishing House.
* Gupta, S. P., & Gupta, A. *Business Statistics: Statistical Methods*. Delhi, India: S. Chand Publishing.
* Hazarika, ла. лљ. *Textbook of Business Statistics*. Delhi, India: S. Chand Publishing.
* Levine, D. M., Krehbiel, C., & Berenson, L. *Business Statistics - A First Course*. India: Pearson Education.
* Tulsian, P.C., & Jhunjhunwala, B. *Business statistics*. Mumbai, India: S. Chand publishing.
* Vohra, N. D. *Business Statistics*. Delhi, India: McGraw-Hill Education India.
* Sharma, J. K, *Business Statistics*, 2nd Ed. Pearson, 2010.
* Ghosh, R. K. and Saha, S., *Business Mathematics and Statistics*, Calcutta, New Central Book Agency, 2012.