---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "ba3crt12"
course_title: "marketing-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA3CRT12 - Marketing Management

The aim of this course is to provide the students with a conceptual base on marketing management and also to equip them with the necessary skills for employment in the middle level cadre.

---
## Course Objectives

On completion of the course students should be able:
* To have an awareness on market, market segments and consumer behaviour.
* To know the meaning and importance of product mix.
* To understand pricing policies and the applicability of different pricing strategies.
* To know the scope of advertising and sales promotion.
* To identify and develop salesmanship in them.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction
* Meaning and definition of different marketing concepts functions of marketing environmental factors market segmentation buying motive and process consumer and customer - factors affecting consumer behaviour - marketing plan.

### Module 2: Marketing mix
* Marketing mix: meaning product, product mix- product life cycle importance of branding-packaging and labelling.

### Module 3: Pricing
* Pricing policies objectives factors influencing pricing decisions - different pricing strategies: skimming- penetration.
* Market structure channel of distribution and its importance.

### Module 4: Promotion
* Advertising objectives and functions - types of advertising - personal selling and direct marketing - sales promotion.

### Module 5: Marketing Research
* Marketing research definition, scope and process.
* Marketing risk and marketing audit.

---
## References
* *Marketing Management:* - Philip Kotler, Jha & Koshy, Pearson Education, New Delhi.
* *Marketing-Planning implementation and control* - Philip Kotler, Prentice Hall.
* *Marketing Management Text and Cases* - SHH Kazmi, Excel Books, New Delhi.
* *Marketing Management* - V. S Ramaswami & S. Namakumary, MacMillan Publishers, New Delhi.
* *Marketing Management* - Cranfield, Ane Books, New Delhi.
* *Marketing Research* - D. D Sharma, Sultan Chand And Sons.
* *A Framework for Marketing management* - Philip Kotler & Kevin Keller, Pearson, 5th edition.
* *Marketing management* - Biplab S Bose, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.