---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "ba3cmt14"
course_title: "business-laws"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA3CMT14 - Business Laws

The aim of this course is to build a general awareness about the principles behind contract law and to introduce various type special contracts.

---
## Course Objectives

On completion of the course, student should be able:
* To identify the principles behind law of contract.
* To equip students to identify the validity of contracts.
* To create awareness about various special contracts.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: General principles of law of contract
* Law of contracts; Definition-essentials of a valid contract-kinds of contracts-Offer and acceptance, revocation-communication-consideration.
* Doctrine of privity of contract-capacity to contract-coercion-undue influence-misrepresentation-fraud-mistake-performance-discharge of contract-breach of contract-remedies for breach of contract.

### Module 2: Contracts of indemnity and guarantee
* Definition of indemnity-essential elements-rights of parties-definition of guarantee -essential elements, rights of surety-nature of surety's liability-discharge of guarantee.

### Module 3: Contract of bailment and pledge
* Definition -essential elements- rights and duties of bailor and bailee-termination of bailment finder of goods-Pledge-definition-rights and duties of pawnor and pawnee.

### Module 4: Contract of agency
* Definition- essentials-types of agency-mercantile agents-extent of agent's authority-delegation of authority- personal liability of agent- liability of agent to third parties- termination of agency.

### Module 5: Contract of sale of goods
* Sale of goods Act; Contract of sale and agreement to sell-conditions and warranties- transfer of property title of goods-rights and duties of seller and buyer- rights of an unpaid seller.

---
## References
* *Business Laws* - K. Aswathappa, Himalaya Publishing House, Bengaluru.
* *Business Laws* - N.D. Kapoor, Sultan Chand publications New Delhi.
* *Business Law* - S.C. Sharma, International Publishers, Bengaluru.
* *Business Law* - Tulsian, McGraw-Hill Education Mumbai.