---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "sw3crt10"
course_title: "working-with-communities"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW3CRT10 - Working with Communities

This course aims to develop an understanding of the critical elements, models, and strategies of community organization practice, along with the skills for participatory processes.

---
## Course Objectives

* Develop understanding of critical elements of community organization practice.
* Enhance understanding of various models and strategies for community organization.
* Develop critical perspectives and skills for participatory processes in community organization.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Understanding Community and community Organization  
* Concept of community: Sociological and social work perspective.
* Types and Functions of community.

### Module 2: Historical perspective and current trends of community organization  
* Concepts and Definitions: Community organization, mobilization, development, welfare.
* Scope, relevance, values, and principles of Community organization.
* History of Community Development in India.

### Module 3: Process, Approaches and Models  
* Processes in community organization: study, analysis, assessment, discussion, organization, action, Evaluation, Modification.
* Approaches: The social work approach, Political Activists approach, Neighborhood maintenance/community development approach.
* Models of community organization: Locality Development, Social Planning, Social Action.

### Module 4: Strategies, techniques and role of social Workers  
* Methods of understanding community: PRA and related techniques, Survey, media.
* Formation and capacity building of CBOs, leadership, advocacy and networking.
* Skills for community organization: Interaction, information gathering, analytical skills, conflict resolution.
* Roles: Guide, Initiator, communicator, enabler, counsellor, motivator, advocator.

### Module 5: Social Action & Advocacy  
* Social Action: Definition, objectives, Scope, Principles, and Models.
* Social Action movements in India.
* Advocacy as a tool: Strategies for advocacy (Campaigning, Lobbying, Use of media).
* Current trends and challenges in Community Organization.

---
## References
* Bhattacharya, Sanjay (2009). *Social Work An Integrated Approach*. New Delhi: Deep & Deep Publications Pvt Ltd.
* RamagondaPatil, Asha (2013). *Community organization and Development An Indian Perspective*. New Delhi: PHI Learning Private Limited.
* Rubin, Irene & Rubin, J Herbert (1986). *Community Organizing and Development*. London: Merrill Publication Company.
* Narayanaswamy, N (2009). *Participatory Rural Appraisal, Principles, Methods and Application*. New Delhi:Sage Publications India Pvt Ltd.