---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "3"
course_code: "sw3cmt11"
course_title: "legal-information-for-social-work-practice"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW3CMT11 - Legal information for social work practice

This course provides a foundational understanding of the Indian Constitution, the legal system, and various social legislations relevant to the practice of social work, particularly for marginalized groups.

---
## Course Objectives

* Critically understand and appreciate the Indian Constitution with particular emphasis on Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles.
* Acquire a basic understanding of Indian Legal System both in its civil and criminal jurisdiction.
* Have clarity about the various laws and procedures of Social Legislation in the fields of family, women, children and other marginalized groups.
* Learn the skills of using legal procedures to ensure the human rights of various marginalized groups.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Indian Constitution  
* Background and history; Preamble, Fundamental Rights, Directive Principles of State Policy and Fundamental Duties.
* Union Parliament, President, Prime Minister and Council of Minister.
* Constitutional Safeguards for SC/ST, women, children.
* Social Legislation: Meaning and Scope.

### Module 2: Indian Judicial System  
* Types of Courts: Civil and Criminal (Muncif, Sub-Court, District, High Court, Supreme Court).
* Special courts: Family Courts, Juvenile Courts (JJB and CWC), Lok Adalats.

### Module 3: Law and Procedures in Law enforcement  
* Law and procedures in Law enforcement: IPC and CrPC.
* Key Concepts: FIR, Arrest, Summons, Warrant, Bail, Cognizable and non-cognizable offences, Charge Sheet.
* Public Interest Litigations (PIL).

### Module 4: Social Legislations  
* Laws for Women: Maternity Benefits Act, Personal laws on Marriage, Divorce, Maintenance, Dowry Prohibition Act, D.V. Act, RTI.
* Laws for Children: Child Labour Act, Child Marriage Restraint Act, Juvenile Justice Act, POCSO Act & RTE Act.
* Laws for SC/ST: Civil Rights Protection Act.
* Consumer Protection Act, 1986.

### Module 5: Administration of legal bodies and Role of Social Workers  
* Administration: Prison, Social defence, Police administration.
* Judicial Commissions: Human Rights, Child Rights, Women Rights Commission.
* Role of social worker in varied settings related to Social Legislation.

---
## References
* PyleeM.V.. (2009). *An Introduction to the Constitution of India*, Fifth Edition, Vikas Publishing House Pvt Lmtd., Noida.
* *Constitutional Law, Volume 1*, The Academy of Legal Publications, Thiruvananthapuram.
* Godbole, Madhav. (2009) *The Judiciary and Governance in India*, Rupa.co, New Delhi.
* Waldron Ronald J. (1976). *The Criminal Justice System an Introduction*, Boston: Houghtan Mifflin Company.
* KashyapSubhash C. (1997). *Citizens and the constitution-citizenship values under the constitution*, New Delhi: Ministry of Information Govt of India.
* Pinherio Antony, DLD. (1995) *Marriage Law in the Latin Code and in the Eastern Code*, Pontifical Institute Publications, Kerala.
* *Law of Torts and Consumer Protection*, Academy of Legal publications, Trivandrum.
* *The Law of Criminal Procedure*- The Academy of Legal Publications-Trivandrum.
* Singh, Gurdip. (2005). *Environmental Law in India*, New Delhi: Macmillan India Ltd.