---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "ba4crt18"
course_title: "entrepreneurship"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA4CRT18 - Entrepreneurship

This course aims to foster an understanding of entrepreneurs, the process of entrepreneurship, and the support systems available for new ventures.

---
## Course Objectives

* To make the students understand about entrepreneurs and different classifications.
* Create an awareness about Entrepreneurial Development Programmes (EDP).
* General awareness about identification of project financing new enterprises.
* To identify different opportunities in small business.
* To understand how to prepare a project report relating to a small business.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1
* Entrepreneur and entrepreneurship - Definition; traits and features; classification.
* Women entrepreneurs; Role of entrepreneur in Entrepreneurs in India.

### Module 2
* Entrepreneurial development programme concept; Need for training; phases of EDP.
* Curriculum & contents of Training Programme; Support systems, Target Groups; Institutions conducting EDPs in India and Kerala.

### Module 3
* Promotion of a venture; opportunity Analysis Project identification and selection.
* External environmental analysis economic, social, technological an competitive factors; Legal requirements for establishment of a new unit; loans; Overrun finance.
* Bridge finance; Venture capital; Providing finance in Approaching financing institutions for loans.

### Module 4
* Small business Enterprise - Identifying the Business opportunity in various sectors - formalities for setting up of a small business enterprise.
* Institutions supporting small business enterprise - EDII, SLDO, NSIC, NIESBUD.
* Sickness in small business enterprise causes and remedies.

### Module 5
* Project formulation - Meaning of a project report significance contents formulation planning, commission's guidelines for formulating a project report.
* Specimen of a project report, problems of entrepreneurs case studies of entrepreneurs.

---
## References
* *Entrepreneurship Development* - Dorden and Natarajan, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai.
* *Entrepreneurship Development and Small Business Enterprises* - Poornima M.Charantimath, Pearson, 2nd edition.