---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "ba4cmt19"
course_title: "basic-informatics-for-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA4CMT19 - Basic Informatics for Management

This course aims to make a student competent to handle and scientifically analyse the various aspects of his business while he commences a business, using tools like Excel and Tally.

---
## Course Objectives

* To have thorough knowledge in Excel.
* To get adequate knowledge in Excel to use it in their Research Work.
* To become Computer proficient.
* To get enough knowledge in Computerized Accounting.
* Should be able to scientifically analyse the financial position of a firm.

---
## SCourse Contents

### Module 1: Excel Basics (Based on XP)
* Introduction to Excel Window Components: Cell, Cell Address Frame, Worksheet, Work Book.
* Formatting Techniques (Cell, Page, Printing).

### Module 2: Formulas and Functions and Charts in Excel
* Creating Formulae and working with different Addressing Modes (Relative, Absolute, Mixed, Inter Sheet Referencing).
* Functions: Financial (NPV, PMT), Mathematical (SUM, ROUND, FACTORIAL), Statistical (AVERAGE, COUNT, MEDIAN, MODE, STDDEV), Logical (IF, AND, FALSE, NOT, OR, TRUE).
* Macros, Goal Seek, and Charts (Types and Preparation).

### Module 3: Computerized Accounting - Tally
* Introduction to Computerized Accounting: Features, Advantages, Limitations.
* Features of Tally, Need for Tally, Technological Advantages.

### Module 4: Tally Fundamentals and Processing Transactions
* Tally screen components and navigation.
* Creation/Setting up of a Company in Tally, F11: Features, F12: Configure.
* Creating Ledgers and Groups.
* Processing Transactions using Accounting Vouchers (Contra, Payment, Receipt, Journal, Sales Invoice).

### Module 5: Generating and Printing of Accounting Reports
* Generating Financial Reports in Tally: Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss Account, Trial Balance, List of Accounts.
* Account Books: Group Summary, Group Vouchers.

---
## References
* *Learning MS-Office XP* - Weixel, BPB 1st Edition.
* *Office XP Simply Visual* - Sybex, BPB 1st Edition.
* *MS-Office XP 8 in 1* - Habraken, Tech Media.
* *Simply Tally 9.0* - Ashok K. Nandhani, BPB 1st Edition.
* *Tally 9 Training Guide* - Ashok K. Nandhani, BPB 1st Edition.
* *Computerized Accounting* - Basheet, BPB 1st Edition.