---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "4"
course_code: "ba4cmt20"
course_title: "corporate-laws"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA4CMT20 - Corporate Laws

The aim of this course is to build a general awareness about the principles behind, companies and partnerships.

---
## Course Objectives

* To identify the various steps in the formation of a company.
* To specify the basic principles of corporate laws.
* To clarify the basic principles of partnership law.
* To understand the basic features of limited liability partnership.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Formation and incorporation of a company (The Companies Act, 2013)
* Characteristics and types of companies; Promoters; corporate veil; pre-incorporation contracts.
* Memorandum of association, articles of association, doctrine of ultra vires, constructive notice, indoor management.
* Prospectus types and liability for misstatement.

### Module 2: Management of companies and Company meetings
* Qualification, appointment, powers, duties and liabilities of directors.
* Kinds of company meetings; requisites of a valid meeting (Chairman, agenda, minutes, quorum).
* Motions and resolutions, proxy.

### Module 3: Winding up of companies
* Modes of winding up; compulsory and voluntary winding up procedures.
* Effects of winding up; liquidator powers and functions; contributories.

### Module 4: The Law Relating to Partnership and limited liability partnership
* Nature, test and types of partnership; partnership deed; rights and liabilities of partners.
* Incoming and outgoing partners; Retirement; Registration and dissolution of partnership.
* Limited liability partnerships.

### Module 5: Pollution control Act
* Definitions- Air- water and sound pollution- pollution control measures.

---
## References
* Shukla, M.C., & Gulshan, *Principles of Company Law*, S. Chand, New Delhi.
* Venkataramana, K., *Corporate Administration*, Seven Hills Books Publications.
* Kapoor, N.D., *Company Law and Secretarial Practice*, Sultan Chand, New Delhi.
* Maheswari, S.N. and Maheswari, S.K., *Elements of corporate Law*, Himalaya Publications, Mumbai.
* Bansa, IC.L., *Business and Corporate Law*, Vikas Publishers, New Delhi.