---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "ba1crt01"
course_title: "principles-and-methodology-of-management"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA1CRT01 - Principles and Methodology of Management

Principles and Methodology of Management are the basic foundation for management studies. This course offers a methodological perspective about this subject.

---
## Course Objectives

* Methodological Perspective of Management as a discipline.
* Principles and functions of Management.
* Process of decision making.
* Modern trends in management process.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction
* Nature and scope of management process, definition of management-management: a science, an art or profession?, scientific management, administrative management, human relations management.
* Contributions of Taylor, Fayol, Max Webber, Gilberth, Gantt, Chester Bernard, Elton Mayo, Peter Drucker.

### Module 2: Planning
* Definition, meaning, Importance, steps in planning, characteristics types of plans - objectives, strategies, policies, procedures, rules, programmes and Budgets, Relationship between planning and controlling, limitations of planning.
* Decision making - definition, meaning, objectives, steps in rational decision making, Types of decisions, Difficulties in decision making.

### Module 3: Organizing
* Meaning importance, process of organizing, organizations structure, Types of organization structure line organizations, line and staff organizations, Functional organization, committees.
* Delegation of authority, significance of delegation, process of delegation.
* Centralisation & decentralisation of authority.

### Module 4: Staffing
* Meaning and importance only (This topic in covered in detail in HRM).
* Directing - Meaning, importance, elements of directing.

### Module 5: Controlling
* Co-ordination, need for co-ordination, meaning and importance of controls, control process, budgetary and non-budgetary controls.

---
## References
* *Principles of management* - P.C. TRIPATHI & P.Ν. Reddy, Tata McGraw Hill publishing CO.
* *Essentials of management* - Harold Koontz & Weihrich, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing co. 2015.
* *Fundamentals of Management Essential concepts and applications* - Stephen P Robbins, Sangamitra Bhattacharya & et al., 8th Pearson edition 2015.
* *Management Global Perspectives* - Harold Koontz & Weihrich, Tata McGraw Hill Publishing co. 2015.
* *Principles and Practice of Management* - LM Prasad, Sultan Chand And Sons 8th Edition.