---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "ba1crt02"
course_title: "business-accounting"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA1CRT02 - Business Accounting

This course aims to impart basic knowledge about the system of accounting.

---
## Course Objectives

On completion of this course students should be able to:
* Understand the basics of accounting.
* Identify the basics principles of accounting.
* Understand the systems /process for recording transactions.
* Prepare the final accounts of sole trader.
* Have a general awareness about depreciation accounting.
* Know about the concept of bill of exchange in business.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Accounting
* Introduction of accounting Origin meaning, definition-need importance-functions limitations-accounting principles-Generally accepted accounting principles-accounting equation- double entry system.

### Module 2: Recording Transactions
* Recording transactions journal-ledger-trial balance-cash book (single column bank column, and with discount column) - bank reconciliation statement.

### Module 3: Depreciation Accounting
* Accounting for depreciation-meaning-importance-methods of providing depreciation (Straight line, diminishing, annuity)-reserves and provisions.

### Module 4: Final Accounts
* Final accounts of sole trader-manufacturing, trading, and profit and loss account and balance sheet.

### Module 5: Bill of Exchange
* Bill of exchange meaning, definition- importance promissory note-recording bill transaction (honouring, dishonouring, discounting).

---
## References
* *Core References:*
    * *Business accounting* - Jain and Narang.
* *Suggested Readings:*
    * *Advanced accounting* - Jain and Narang.
    * *Advanced Accountancy* - M.A. Arulanandam and K.S. Raman, Himalaya Publications, Mumbai.