---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "ba1cmt03"
course_title: "fundamentals-of-business-mathematics"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA1CMT03 - Fundamentals of Business Mathematics

This course aims to develop analytical and critical thinking skills in students to prepare them to logically analyse and critically evaluate problem situation through basic mathematics.

---
## Course Objectives

* Develop scientific ability.
* Critically evaluate mathematical problems.
* To have fundamental touch with industrial and commercial problems.
* To know about modern trends in mathematics.
* To prepare them for management studies.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Set theory
* Modern theory in mathematics, Definition, elements and types of sets, operations on sets and Cartesian product of two sets.

### Module 2: Algebra-1
* Number system-Natural numbers, prime numbers, integers, rational and irrational numbers, Ratio, proportion and variation Sequences.
* Arithmetic progression, nth term and sum to n terms of A.P.
* Geometric progression, nth term, sum to n terms and sum to infinity of G.P.

### Module 3: Algebra-2
* Permutations and combinations, Logarithm, Compound interest and depreciation.

### Module 4: Matrices
* Matrices, matrix operations, Determinant of a square matrix (expansions only) and Rank of a matrix.

### Module 5: System of linear equations
* Inverse of square matrix (problems only).
* Solution of system of linear equations using matrices.

---
## References
* *Business Mathematics* - S.Saha.
* *Business mathematics* - D.C. Sanchet & V.K Kapoor (Sultan Chand & Sons).