---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "1"
course_code: "ba1cmt04"
course_title: "fundamentals-of-business-statistics"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA1CMT04 - Fundamentals of Business Statistics

This course aims to provide a reasonable idea of basic statistical methods needed for a statistical investigation and forecasting.

---
## Course Objectives

* To present a broad overview of statistics as a subject.
* To organize a statistical survey.
* To understand the importance of summary measures to describe the characteristics of data set.
* To analyse the relationship between two variables.
* To use various forecasting techniques.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction
* Origin, Meaning, Scope and limitations of statistics.
* Relationship with business and industry.

### Module 2: Collection of data
* Collection, classification and tabulation of statistical data.
* Pie diagrams.
* Graphic representation.

### Module 3: Measures of central tendency and dispersion
* Mean, Median and Mode.
* Measures of dispersion- standard deviation.
* Coefficient of variation.

### Module 4: Simple correlation and Regression
* Meaning, Karl Pearson's Correlation, Rank correlation, Computations.
* Uses, Regression equations - Forecasting.

### Module 5: Time series analysis
* Components of time series - Definition, Computation of Trend.
* Computation of seasonal variation (Simple average method only).

---
## References
* *Statistical methods* - S.P. Gupta.
* *Fundamental of Mathematical statistics* - S.C. Gupta & V.K. Kapoor.
* *Basic Statistics* - B.L. Agarwal.
* *An introduction to statistical methods* - C.B. Gupta.
* *Fundamentals of Statistics* - S.C. Gupta, Himalaya Publishing House.