---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-social-work"
version: "2017"
semester: "5"
course_code: "sw5cmt22"
course_title: "gandhian-philosophy-and-social-work"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# SW5CMT22 - Gandhian Philosophy and Social Work

This course provides an understanding of Gandhian philosophy and its application to social work, economics, education, and rural development.

---
## Course Objectives

* Understand the fundamentals of Gandhian Philosophy and Gandhian Social Work.
* Develop an understanding on Gandhian views on economics, education, industry and development.
* Analyse Gandhian approach to Rural reconstruction.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Fundamentals of Gandhian philosophy  
* Cultural heritage of India, Characteristics of Indian culture.
* Social dimension of Varna Dharma, Ashrama, Dharma, Purusharthas, Ashram Vows.

### Module 2: Foundations of Gandhian Social thought  
* Man and Society, theories of Trusteeship, Panchayat Raj, Swadeshi and Sarvodaya.
* Seven Social sins, Social change through non-violence.

### Module 3: Gandhian views on economics and industry  
* Ethical basis of Economics: purity of means, simplicity of life, cooperation, bread labour, Self-reliance.
* Problems of modern economic growth.
* Machinery and production, appropriate technology, indigenous technology.

### Module 4: Gandhian views of Education  
* The philosophy and social purpose of Nai Thalim.
* Value base of an ideal society: Peace, Equality, Human dignity and democracy.
* Characteristics of Gandhian Social Work, Gandhi's relevance in today's world.

### Module 5: Gandhian approach to rural Development  
* Agriculture and industry, Local source of energy and raw materials.
* Charka as a symbol of self-reliance, village industries.
* Grass root level participation of people in community.
* Gandhian constructive programmes.

---
## References
* Gangrade, K.D., (2005), *Gandhian Approach to Development and Social Work*, Concept Publishing Company, New Delhi.
* Singh, R.b., (2006), *Gandhian Approach to Development Planning*, Concept Publishing Company, New Delhi.
* Ray, Ramashray, (1985) *Self and Society: A Study in Gandhian Thought*, Sage Publication, New Delhi.
* Gangrade, K.D. (2001) *Constructive Programmes*, Gandhi Smriti and Danshan Samiti, New Delhi.
* Prabhu R.K and Rao, U.R. (1987), *The Mind of Mahatma Gandhi*, Navajeevan, Ahmedabad.
* Bharati, K.S. (1991) *The Social Philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi*; Concept Publishers, New Delhi.
* Bose N.K. *Selections from Gandhi*.