---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "5"
course_code: "ba5crt21"
course_title: "organisational-behaviour"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA5CRT21 - Organisational Behaviour

This course introduces the study of individual and group dynamics in an organizational setting and the application of this knowledge to improve organizational effectiveness.

---
## Course Objectives

* Understand the implications of individual and group behaviour in organisational context.
* Understand the concept of organisational behaviour, social organisation and the diverse environment alongside with the management of groups and teams.
* Appreciate the culture of organisational culture.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Organisational Behaviour
* Various discipline contributing to OB- Hawthorne experiment- foundation of individual behaviour- need and importance of organisational behaviour-nature and scope- framework of organisational behaviour.

### Module 2: Individual Behaviour
* Personality-types-factors affecting personality-perception-importance-factors influencing perception-learning-types of learning styles-the learning process.

### Module 3: Group Behaviour
* Motivation-theories-importance -types -values and attributes-characteristics- components-formation and measurement-group dynamics group behaviour- formation-types of groups-stages of group development-conflict management- nature of conflict-types of conflict.

### Module 4: Leadership and Power
* Leadership-meaning-importance-leadership styles-leaders Vs. managers-power and politics- sources of power.

### Module 5: Organisational System
* Organisational structure and design-organisational climate- factors affecting organisational climate- organisational development-organisational culture- organisational change- current trend in OB.

---
## References
* *Essentials of Organisational Behaviour* - Stephen P Robbins, Timothy A. Judge & Seema Sanghi, Pearson, 10th edition.
* *Organizational behaviour* - Bhattacharya, Oxford university Press.
* *Organization behaviour* - L.M. Prasad, Sultan Chand & Sons 2005.