---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "5"
course_code: "ba5cmt24"
course_title: "intellectual-property-rights-and-industrial-laws"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA5CMT24 - Intellectual Property Rights and Industrial Laws

This course aims to build a general awareness about the principles behind intellectual property legislations and three important industrial laws.

---
## Course Objectives

* To appreciate the concepts of patent and trademark protection.
* To specify the various legal provisions in the Factories Act and Industrial Disputes Act.
* To identify the benefits offered by ESI Act.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction to Intellectual property Rights
* Concept; patents; term and registration of patents; Rights of patent holder; infringement of patents.
* Trademark: Meaning; procedure for registration; infringement of registered trademark; Collective marks - certification trademarks-well known trade mark.

### Module 2: Law relating to factories
* Approval, licensing and registration of factories; provisions regarding health, safety and welfare of workers; working hours; employment of women and young persons. Annual leave with wages.

### Module 3: Law relating to Industrial Disputes
* Meaning of industry; machinery for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes.
* Provisions relating to strikes, lay off, retrenchment, lock out, closure and transfer of undertakings.

### Module 4: Law relating to employees' state insurance
* Applicability of the Act administration of the scheme- ESI corporation-standing committee and medical benefit council- inspectors- contributions-benefits under the Act - adjudication of disputes.

### Module 5: Consumer Protection Act
* Definitions- Consumer Protection Councils- objects-consumer disputes redressal agencies-composition and Jurisdiction of the District Forum, State Commission and National Commission-procedure for filing complaints.

---
## References
* No specific references are listed for this course in the provided document.