---
country: "india"
university: "mahatma-gandhi-university"
branch: "bachelor-of-business-administration"
version: "2017"
semester: "5"
course_code: "ba5crt26"
course_title: "industrial-relations"
language: "english"
contributor: "@Luffy0016"
---
# BA5CRT26 - Industrial Relations

This course aims to make students aware of the relations between labour and management in an industry.

---
## Course Objectives

* To have a basic idea regarding industrial relations.
* To understand various prospect of workers and employers.
* To understand more about the employees performance and their carrier planning.
* To know how agreements are made in industries between workers and management.
* To know how the workers are participating in decision making programmes.
* To understand various welfare facilities of education programmes provided by employers to their employees.

---
## Course Contents

### Module 1: Introduction
* Nature of Industrial relations- meaning and importance- Industrial labour in India,- an overview of industrial growth- Private and Public Sector Employment trends- Industrial Labour force.

### Module 2: Bargaining agents
* Workers Organization: Role of Trade Union in Industries- Multiplicity of trade unions- inside and outside leadership.
* Employers Organization-Role of Employers Organization in maintaining industrial relations, Recognition of trade Unions.

### Module 3: Industrial Unrest
* Concepts- Causes- Problems- handling techniques and procedures relating to -go- slow-work-stoppage-gherao-retrenchment-lay-off.

### Module 4: Settlement of Industrial Disputes
* State Policy- need and nature of state labour policy and intervention-ILO Statutory Measures: Holding Negotiations-bipartite-tripartite negotiations-mediation- conciliation-arbitration-adjudication.

### Module 5: Promotion of Industrial Peace
* Collective bargaining-works participation in management-works education-workers welfare-Industrial truce.

---
## References
* *Industrial relations, trade unions and labour registration* - P.R.N. Sinha & InduBala Sinha & Seema Priyadarshini Shekhar.
* *Industrial relations* - C.B. Mamoria.